Schenectady Local 301 files $2.5 million libel suit against 3 former officers, now UE-CIO members, for alleged defamation in lr distributed Nov 3 to Schenectady banks and GE
FBI to study plot for US law violations; UAWA posts $25,000 award for plotters raising reward for gunmen who shot W P and V Reuther to $245,000; W P Reuther comments
York, Pa, local quits; UE starts ct fight Phila, with UE-CIO over local 119 treas and records
NYS Sup Ct rules Sperry Gyroscope Co Local 450 and its funds can quit UE (Ind) and join UE-CIO; Singer Mfg Co, Bridgeport, signs contract
AEC reptd to have withheld recognition of UERMWA (Ind) at 2 projects from fear of Communist-led work stoppage
Canadian CIO suspends Dist 5 for non-payment of dues; pres C S Jackson scores action; Columbus, Ohio, CIO officials defer contempt actions against UE (Ind) for alleged violation of injunction barring UE confs
Natl Indus Conf Bd survey shows only 8.2% of 134 pacts studied provide single pay rate for same job
conv, Phila; Pres Truman message backs union; P Murray s; indicates Carey is best qualified to head union; A J Fitzgerald scores UE-CIO membership claims
Former pres E J Brown seeks ct order halting his expulsion from meetings; files $100,000 suit against union, pres D W Tracy and internatl exec council members; Tracy files charges
conv ends; rejects proposed unit-voting rule; approves empowering Adm Com to conduct unions affairs until const conv is set; other resolutions
NYS Sup Ct div upholds lower ct order limiting Schenectady Local 301 spending to $3,500 wkly
Carey makes econ rept; charters reptd issued to 133 locals representing 60% of original UE membership; UE (Ind) scores claim
Pres M Pizer breaks with left wing; backs CIO allegiance; M Perlow and E Marsh repudiate views; exec bd to hear issue
PHILADELPHIA, Nov. 26 (UP) -- The CIO's new International Union of Electrical Workers geared itself today for its first organizational meeting here and an all-out war with an ousted left-wing union for representation of more than 400,000 workers.
Westinghouse plant guards, Pittsburgh, quit to form new union; Fitzgerald and other Lynn, Mass, local officers sign non-Communist affidavits; Fitzgerald comments
Local 427 repts contract with Keuffel & Esser co, Hoboken; Farrand Optical, NY, grants contract; Conmar Products to recognize members if NLRB election upholds UE-CIO; Lynn, Mass, Local 201 claims victory in 1st returns of local councilors election; UE (Ind) acts to bar Otis Elevator local members from joining
1,000, American Safety Razor, Bklyn, 300, Internatl Projector and 7,000, Singer Mfg, NJ, cos back independent UE; Farrand Optical, Bronx, and General Instrument, NJ, cos workers quit; UE (Ind) to sue Phelps-Dodge; to sue Otis Elevator local's officers who quit
Detroit Police Comr links gasoline saturation of Cadillac Local 22 Pres Scopas' home to Communist plot to harm right-wing leaders
Locals 775, 801, 804 (Dayton), 617 (Sharon, Pa), 113, 118 (Phila), 627 (Fairmont, W Va) and Springfield, Mass, local secede to UE-CIO; Holyoke, Mass, local stays in; Rochester Local 506 right-wing pres ordered to show cause why they should not be restrained from bargaining or using local's funds; injunction bars Syracuse local secession meeting
CLEVELAND, Nov. 5 -- The major surgical operation performed this week by delegates to the convention of the Congress of Industrial Organizations will have widespread repercussions in the labor movement and industry generally.
9 NY-NJ Dist 4 and 4 Phila Dist locals quit to join UE-CIO; NJ ct bars right-wing Locals 410 and 447 funds transfers; J Emspak comments
Left-wing group frustrates attempt of 50 right-wing members to privately discuss means to back natl CIO fight against Communist influence
W G Zaenglein links office worker productivity lag to lack of tools and sees lag in econ gains result
Pres Fitzgerald scores CIO action; 601 rival factions plan strategy; Lynn, Mass, Local 201 leftists sue to tie up unit funds; Dayton locals to vote on quitting expelled UE; Dist 3 exec scores threat of 5 up-state NY locals pres to withdraw members
Pittsburgh Local 601 rightists transfer bank acct and safety deposit boxes; officers quit; leftists comment; 4 Schenectady and Syracuse, NY, locals officers plan to lead units out of UE
NJ Superior Ct orders Locals 447 and 410 to show cause why they should not be restrained from transferring orgn funds and taking secession steps; bars funds use
Gen exec bd asks P Murray to conf with UE com on CIO raiding and interference problems
Officers sign non-Communist affidavits to qualify for NLRB elections; House com listing, Dec, '48, of J Emspak and J J Matles as Communists noted
W Lissner (NY Times) replies to Roberts; cites Roberts circulation repts in Pol Affairs (pub) and Daily Worker
Pres Fitzgerald and 3 other Lynn, Mass, local members found guilty of conduct detrimental to UE
CIO Farm Equipment Workers officers vote to merge unions; G Oakes seen getting exec bd seat for aiding
CIO dir A Haywood warns UE against merger; merger rejected by Farm Workers Dist 6; scored by M Weihrauch and J W Livingston
Pan-Amer Local 504, Queens, books seized by 5-man Adm com; Quill calls local's execs to hearing
rightists vote to stand as bloc to prepare for CIO action at conv in reply to UE leftists re-election; elect 10-man delegation; Carey comments; Murray reptd irritated with left-wing ultimatum
election; 3 leftists re-elected; Fitzgerald pres; left-wing resolution threatens to withhold per capita tax unless CIO yields to UE on 6 demands; Fitzgerald to seek conf with Murray; Carey comments
J B Carey charges left-wing credentials com threatened to bar some right-wingers; leftists lift ban on columnist V Riesel; curb on photographers seen; Carey comments on pending election
Internatl exec bd ousts 4 Miami Local 500 leaders; charges; suspends 2 others; 14 NYC Local 504 exec bd members charge M J Quill with interfering in local's affairs; Quill reply
Exec bd appts com to probe charges of misconduct by Miami Local 500 officials; probe hearings set
M Travis quits Communist Party to sign non-Communist affidavit; says he will continue to fight for party goals
Local 601 business agent C Copeland testifies before House Un-Amer Activities Com on Communist infiltration of local
NLRB challenges non-Communist ctfs; holds D Henderson shifted from pres to natl adm dir to avoid signing; demands proof his tasks are not officer's
exec bd asks indus and Govt aid to stop unemployment; asks cos grant '49 contract demands
NY Office Execs Assn survey showing wider use of aptitude and performance tests in hiring of female office help cited
T Doll and S Sage expelled; 3 others of Paterson, NJ, local ousted for alleged bribery; expulsion of 7 former Allis-Chalmers local leaders upheld; const change empowers internatl exec bd to bring members of locals to trial
UAWA conv backs negotiating team; union ban on security clauses in contracts seen affecting co; W P Reuther reptd ready to direct negotiations
Reuther candidates for bd win; Reuther to propose change in procedure for trying members; grievance com to ask Doll and Sage expulsion; they comment
16 aviation locals reject reinstatement petitions of deposed Local 500 officers; internatl exec bd revocation of Miami charter noted
W Grogan, apptd Florida Local 500 adm, crashes aviation sec leftists meeting, NYC, called to organize secession movement; shows ct injunction halting officers activities; 3 Miami leaders quit conf
Reuther scores left-wingers T Doll and S Sage for releasing rept on Paterson, NJ, local; urges conv discipline them
personnel leaders rept shift to employers market in unskilled jobs; NY Commerce and Indus Assn repts wage leveling after Feb peak; turnover cut seen
W P Reuther to ask $10-million reserve strike fund; dues rise planned; bd protests to Pres Truman and Atty Gen Clark on barring of Canadians
The recent letter "The Third Labor Factor." by E.L. Stephens, in THE NEW YORK TIMES interests me as a nonunion worker and a firm believer in self-determination of minorities and majorities. But it fascinates me as an exercise in illogic.
No man of this generation has been a more energetic worker for world peace or a more disinterested friend of humanity than John Boyd Orr, who has received the Nobel Peace Prize for 1949. The man who was born in a poor Scotch family sixty-nine years ago last month now carries the title of Lord Boyd Orr.
The lull in advancing prices that followed the first imposition of price ceilings has now been broken definitely. Wholesale prices and the cost of living have advanced to new highs for recent years, with the former up 33 per cent and the latter 19 per cent since the outbreak of the war in Europe.
Perlow, M Pizer and E Marsh affidavits referred co Justice Dept for check; NLRB cites publicity as reason
The march of medicine and the high standards of living have greatly increased the life span of the American people. One of the consequences of this new emphasis in age groups is the greater number of older workers in industry. There are nearly three million workers over 65. More and more women remain in gainful employment.
This is a plan on behalf of the older worker, the man or woman of 45 or more, who through no personal fault is in the position of having to seek new work.
A FORWARD step in the democracy of fashion is seen in the interest of some of New York's ace designers in the war plant workers.
When one notices the subjects discussed at the National Conference of Social Work, now in session in Boston, and compares them and the attendance (estimated at 5,000) with the matters taken up by the seventy-nine who attended the first...
The best measure of the average man's well-being in any country is how much work he has to do to get the things he needs and wants. Work and goods are the realities of which money is merely a symbol. In an article published in another section of this newspaper today Will Lissner employs this principle to make a comparison between conditions in the United States and in Russia since the devaluation of the ruble.
As a result of its drive last spring to persuade industry and business to employ older persons, the Federation Employment Service, 67 West Forty-seventh Street, New York 19, has issued a report with recommendations designed to attack the problem on a long-range and large-scale basis.
If the nation's 500,000 steel workers wish to strike, that is their right, and no one can justifiably raise a finger against their doing so. But, by the same token, any worker desiring to remain on the job ought to have equal consideration. He ought to be allowed to stay at his task if he so elects.
The article by Paul V. McNutt in the Magazine of Sept. 13 interests me. "Our habit of discrimination against the aged may yet cost us much production," he says. Already it has caused untold misery among the worthiest class of workers.
VICHY, Monday, Sept. 14 (AP) -- With reference to application of the new labor decree to the sending of French workers to Germany, a demand, which found its way into print in the Paris press, was put forward that the War Department "remobilize" the skilled workers the Army left in factories and send them to Germany.
VINELAND, N.J., July 17 -- About 1,500 members of the American Flint Glass Workers Union remained on strike this afternoon despite appeals by Harry H. Cook, international union president, to return to their jobs at Kimble Glass Company and follow orderly proceedings set up by Congress in handling wage disputes.
BRINGING the universities and the workers of England closer together has been the big task of the Workers' Educational Association, founded in 1903 by Al  bert Mansbridge and other Englishmen interested in the movement of labor toward the best education the country can offer.
THOMAS A. EDISON, a grand young workingman, says he is glad at 73 years that the eight-hour day was not invented when he began work, and that no agitator ever convinced him that it was unfair to his fellow-workers to do the best he could for himself and those who paid him for his work.
The final report on unemployment, in the census conducted by the Government under John D. Biggers, estimates that 2,740,000 more women workers have entered the country's labor market since 1930 than one would expect merely from the growth of population.
The vociferous champion of "peace" has wantonly invaded Finland by land, by sea and by air. The arch foe of "capitalist imperialism," after anneking nearly half of Poland and imposing...
A SOCIAL problem which is today confronting most of the civilized nations is unrest among industrial workers. There appears to be increasing dissatisfaction on  the part of labor with the position in which it finds itself. There is an obvious resentment at the extent of the gap which severs the employed from the employer.
The Committee on Industrial Betterment of the National Manufacturers' Association has recommended that workers be represented in the management of industry, even on corporation...
Lambo, P, killed by falling crane boom in dry dock of S I Shipbuilding Corp, at Port Richmond
Daily Worker (pub) urges ALP to designate Councilman B J Davis Jr, Negro Comumnist, for re-election, Manhattan
Red flags appear on towers; govt unable to lower banners immediately or discover how they were put there
J G Bethune, Lord Mfg Co employe, arrested; indicted on charge of causing destruction of airplane mounts, Pittsburgh
Torpedo tube valve opened by worker floods and sinks new submarine, Boston Navy Yd, Boston, Mass
Pusey & Jones employe, T P Hogan, gets WPB merit award for pontoon hatch cover locking device
Regarding the letter of James H. Durkin concerning the white - collar worker, I have a comment to make.
Child labor is called an aggravating factor in industrial depression by the American Federation of Labor. Yet child labor in the United States is not predominantly an industrial problem if one uses industry in the sense of manufacturing or other urban occupation.
Although the New York Child Labor Committee made no attempt at the last session of the Legislature to introduce new limitations on the paid work children may do in this State, it put in a busy year trying
Miss Ada Fishburn, 24-year-old English factory worker who traded jobs for a month with a girl in Bayonne, N.J., sailed for home yesterday expressing thanks to the American friends who made the exchange idea work out happily.
WHAT can be done to make the woman worker take herself seriously? In other words, how can women be brought to regard their work in the same spirit as men do, and not as a mere means of filling in the time between leaving school and going to the altar?
Municipal employes in New York, contributing a percentage of their salaries for unemployment relief, are the counterpart, under our system of voluntary effort, of compulsory wage reductions for public servants in other countries.
"Women have always worked!" The phrase runs like an undertone through the little monograph which the Young Women's Christian Association has issued for the guidance and inspiration of wage-working and voting women.
When business began to slip, clerical workers were not greatly alarmed. If business was to be carried on at all, letters would have to be written, mailed and filed, books would have to be kept, all the intricate machinery of a modern office would have to be run by the usual staff.
Justice WASSERVOGEL'S refusal to issue a restraining order-against the organizers of an independent Interborough employes' union is in harmony with public sentiment, but not based on sentiment.
There are several ways of dealing with the slums. One is to tear down the old tenements and build anew.
A common fling at advocates of social betterment is that they are theorists or dreamers. The fetching appeal is to heed the advice of practical men. Two such did give their advice in public addresses on Tuesday.
W J Strempek, U S worker on Trinidad base, sentenced on charge of misappropriating U S property, ct martial
Indus sabotage: H L Thomas, G L Martin Co Middle River plant aircraft inspector, held, Balt
LABOR: Royal Typewriter Co striking UERMWA workers agree to return to work following acceptance of co compromise wage and other offers, Hartford, Conn
Driver permitted to serve sentence on Sunday because he is employed in defense industry, New Haven
W Markle killed, R Day hurt by steel girder on Rip Van Winkle Bridge, Catskill, N Y
Louis Brenner has been named to succeed Isidore Sobeloff as director of the New York office of the National Jewish Hospital at Denver, it was announced yesterday by Paul Felix Warburg, chairman of the local committee.
Despite the ill-will and contention which characterize the relations between most railroads and their workers, a Vice President of the Pennsylvania Railroad speaks publicly of ...
WASHINGTON, Dec. 14. -- The country's 28,000,000 wage earners may receive social security "numbers" under an identification plan now receiving careful scrutiny by officials of the Social Security Board as a possible solution to one of the vast administrative problems before them.
Arrives in U S to study Jewish educ, soc and philanthropic methods in U S and Canada
To the delegation of Princeton students who called upon him on Sunday ex-President WILSON said that he hoped to "keep his ideals actively before the public."
The report of the Adult Education Committee of the Ministry of Reconstruction in England concludes that adult education must not be regarded as a luxury for a few exceptional persons here and there, nor as a thing which concerns only early manhood or womanhood; but that it is a "permanent national necessity" and should be "both universal and lifelong."
BALTIMORE, March 24 (U.P.) -- The Maryland Federation of Telephone Workers issued strike ballots to 2,000 workers today in preparation for a walkout on April 7. The federation is one of five Maryland unions trying to negotiate new contracts with the Chesapeake and Potomac Telephone Company.
The reason given by the three hundred well-to-do Danes--bankers, lawyers, teachers, business men and farmers--for their willingness to stoke the Frederick VIII, across the Atlantic is strikingly similar to that lately alleged by TROTZKY for the enforced labor of the Bolsheviki.
DETROIT, April 30 (AP) -- The CIO United Auto Workers' strike called for May 12 in Chrysler plants would affect 75,000 employes, including production workers and some office employes and engineers, in three plants in Indiana and one at Los Angeles as well as fourteen plants in Michigan.
As to the rights and wrongs of the immediate issue between clothing workers and manufacturers the evidence at hand is not sufficient to form any definite opinion. It is a matter of intimate relations in the shop, and the two factions have issued contradictory ...
Thought is a commodity of which there may some day be an embarrassing surplus, but so far there has been no overproduction. All good wishes, then, may be extended to the "resident workers' college" which is to be ...
1,400 Glen Alden Coal Co workers vote return to work after 2-day strike protesting mech loaders, Wilkes-Barre, Pa
US LABOR: UMWA Local 12,243 members strike at Metals Disintegrating Co plant, Union, NJ, over certain contract provisions
During the war average hourly earnings and average weekly earnings advanced substantially in many industries. One result has been the inability of lower-wage industries to secure the number of workers they now require to expand output of civilian goods.
1,500 porcelain workers to resume work after walkout ascribed to resignation of pres R R Trubey
Workers at several plants and AFL Machinists Assn members join Lambert-St Louis field plant walkout in protest against mechanics down-grading
worker recruiting plan to pay war stamp-bond bonuses approved by WLB for trial, electro-motive div, La Grange, Ill
In view of your recent editorial comments concerning the serious problem of the national manpower shortage, the following information might be of interest to you.
Phila Housing Authority repts most workers who came to Phila during war will stay next yr
5 left-wing Ital pol parties charge Badoglio ready to hand over Ital fleet to Gers in exch for attempts to neutralize Italy
Gen Confed of Labor calls hr token strike of Govt employes protesting Govt refusal to pay '45 bonus; Sicily workers vote 3-day strike
Richard Kuntzsch Indicted on Charge of Forcing Woman  to Join His Local  As an outgrowth of his zeal as a volunteer union organizer, Richand Kuntzsch, a member of the Wholesale and Warehouse Workers Union, Local 65, CIO, is under indictment on charges of kidnapping and second-degree assault, the union disclosed yesterday.
LABOR: Amer Fed of Hosiery Workers announces 12 1/2 cents retroactive pay increase award to 6 hosiery mills
FARMINGDALE, L.I., Nov. 2 -- Award of a contract to the Republic Aviation Corporation for $15,000,000 worth of its Thunderjet planes brought elation today among Republic officials as well as the 5,400 employes.
strikers return to work; strikers at Bridgeville, Pa, plant refuse to attend union meeting because CIO regional dir called strike illegal
Exec bd meeting; Tobin s; $10 initiation fee and $2 monthly dues ordered for emergency war workers on govt contracts
Bridge, Structural and Ornamental Iron Workers (AFL) strike, 18 Cincinnati plants and Stewart Iron Works Co, Covington, Ky
MOSCOW, Oct. 8 -- In the ruins of a working-class district northwest of Stalingrad the opposing forces are still closely locked in a struggle as desperate and bloody as any fought in the built-up regions of the city. Houses, factories and workers' clubs have been ground to dust in the tense battles.
NYC Welfare Dept makes housekeepers training course permanent project; Comr Arnstein s at commencement, UNRRA reprs to visit projects
SOUTH PLAINFIELD, N.J., April 27 -- Pleas of Federal and union representatives failed to persuade all the employes of Cornell-Dubilier Corporation to return to work today. Even a warning that unless they did so the Army would take over the plant had little effect.
CHICAGO, Nov. 22 -- A threat of a strike of Illinois telephone operators loomed tonight when a strike vote was ordered taken by Mrs. Anne Benscoter, president of the State organization. She authorized Edwin R. Hackett, attorney for the organization, to wire six Illinois division board members as follows:
Roosevelt studies case; Knox conf with OPM and NDMB reprs; M C Taylor of U S Steel Corp reptd consulted; 3,000 workers demonstrate at plant; picketing illus
About the only jobs from which women are now excluded are those in which exceptional muscular strength is demanded. Women now run traveling cranes, weld plates with arcs and gas flames, thread and cut pipe, wire electrical machinery, operate any machine-tool, switch trains from one track to another, drive motor trucks and buses.
Asks Cong to turn over Natl Rys of Mexico to workers to be managed as cooperative
to ask Carey for recognition equal to that granted Joint Council of Sweepers and Drivers (AFL)
Riley, J, scalded to death in repair shops of N Y, New Haven and Hartford Ry
Badoglio sends Labor Min Piccardi to explain govt policy to Milan and Turin pub in attempt to stop unrest; Giustizia e Liberta refuses to support govt stand; asserts pub wishes are ignored
NLRB orders vote on united Elec, Radio and Machine Workers of Amer (CIO) as employe repr
HARRISBURG, Pa., March 23 (AP). -- An army of 300,000 WPA and CCC workers began the vast task of rehabilitating flood-swept areas of Eastern-Central Pennsylvania today, while two new deaths brought the total for the area to 34.
TWO years before the Pilgrims landed at Plymouth an English ship sailed from  the colony of Virginia on an errand that was ostensibly commerce and almost certainly privateering; and back to Virginia some months later came either that ship or a companion it had picked up at sea (the details are ...
The New York Times Saturday Review of Books: May I be permitted to smile (in print) at a comment made in last week's SATURDAY REVIEW OF BOOKS by the Boston correspondent when writing of a new novel.
LONDON, July 14 -- The average Londoner who has donned the workmanlike uniform of the civil defense forces enjoyed his place in the sun today when Prime Minister Winston Churchill reviewed a parade of 6,000 men and women in Hyde Park -- the largest turnout of purely civilian fighters yet held in this country -- and praised their record to date and at the same time warned them of more trouble ahead.
More than 4,000 employes of the Horn  Hardart chain of cafeterias, confectionery and pastry stores will begin voting today at the Washington Irving High School, Sixteenth Street and Irving Place, to determine whether they wish to be represented in collective bargaining by two unions affiliated with the American Federation of Labor.
Dr C E Robinson sees workers ideas of indus profits as fantastic misconceptions; cites grave effect on business
BAYONNE, N.J., Aug. 3.--A fall into a tank of sulphuric acid caused the death here today of William Whiteman, 44 years old, a pipe-fitter, and severee injuries to his helper, Charles Leary. The men were working on a plank stretched across the tank top. The plank broke and the men fell. The tank is the property of the Southern Cotton Boil Co., 160 East Twenty-second Street, here.
THOSE who bear such surnames as Smith, Farmer or Hunter give silent testimony to the long-standing associations of men with trades. The trade, symbolic of many aspects of status, remains a vital consideration. Moreover, in a rapidly changing industrial society, the value of a trade can wax or wane within the life span of the tradesman.
The plan conceived by some officials of the New Jersey PWA, who wrote to certain large firms to ask whether they could take on relief workers for "training," while these workers would be kept on the PWA payrolls, was doubtless well-intentioned, but hardly seems well-considered.
A 24-year-old British factory girl from Pagebank, a mining village in Durham, arrived last night on the Cunard liner Queen Elizabeth as an exchange employe of the Duro Test Corporation of North Bergen, N. J.
MOSCOW, Aug. 24. -- Because all government offices are closed today, this being a "free day," it is impossible to learn whether any of the sixteen men, including Gregory Zinovieff and Leon Kameneff, condemned to death early this morning for an assassination plot against Joseph Stalin and his associates, have asked for clemency.
Refugees in Bourgmadame, France, describe Barcelona; Barcelona labor unions order members to go back to work; local Communist, Socialist and Proleterian parties unite as Unified Socialist Party of Catalonia; elections of Catalan munic councilors not members of Popular Front suspended; Ital Govt protests against burning of Barcelona Consulate
The tendency thus far to leave the railroads to their fate illustrates the complete perversity of the attitude into which Washington has fallen regarding the serious business situation.
It will be a gray Christmas for thirty employes of a Manhattan photoengraving concern as a result of a fellow-worker allegedly having misappropriated Christmas Club money entrusted to him, District Attorney Frank S. Hogan revealed yesterday.
SANTIAGO, Chile, June 8 (AP). -- More than 5,000 unemployed men demanded at a mass meeting today that the government turn over to them, the Club de la Union, owned by wealthy and fashionable residents of Santiago.
Archbishop Diaz warns employes of Natl Revolutionary Party of excommunication for activity; Chamber of Deputies seeks to soften tactics of Red Shirts
ALBANY, May 19. -- From February to March, New York City wholesale concerns increased the number of their employes 0.2 per cent. Payrolls increased 0.8 per cent. A year ago increases of 1.6 per cent in employment and 1.0 per cent were recorded from February to March.
THE talk that goes on between takes of talking pictures is, like the lingo of lawyers, a language all its own. Few dialogue writers for pictures could deliberately achieve the word-coinage developed by electricians, property men, camera men and other non-literary workers in motion picture studios.
FORTY-EIGHT professions and vocations are represented in the  latest roster of Y.M.C.A. men workers overseas. There were 1,018 secretaries who describe  themselves merely as "business men," ...
ATOM BOMB EFFECTS: autopsy rept ascribes E W Rhodes death to effects of work at Oak Ridge, Tenn, plant
In the land of cotton and tobacco a tenant farmer heard from one of his neighbors who had moved to town.
G Biggar wins Natl Father's Day Com award as US top working father; starts wk of festivities, NYC, provided by Ford Motor Co
AN under-cover man must "submerge his identity, act like a crook, live among them, dis  close what they're pulling off--and still be one of them,' explains Inspector Coughlin to Clark Jones when Jones joins the new undercover squad of the New York police.
D B Robertson, representative at Sen Foreign Relations subcom hearing, contends St Lawrence waterway will be unfair to R Rs and R R employes
In his Indianapolis defiance to pessimists Mr. HOOVER stated that even today over 95 per cent of American families have " either an income or a breadwinner employed." Estimates of employment range between 80 and 85 per cent, so that at first sight the President seems to...
A new element seems to have entered the historic struggle between Labor and Capital. At least it is so in England. In the manifesto of the Labor Party of two years ago, which was mainly written by SIDNEY WEBB ...
WASHINGTON, March 15 (AP) -- Railway employes in the United States, through A.F. Whitney, chairman of their railway labor executives' association, voiced their sorrow today over the death of Sir Henry W. Thornton in a message of sympathy to his widow.
PR Labor Comr Sierra refuses to lift ban on United Labor Import Organization contracting for laborers to work in US
NJ Appeals Bd awards unemployment benefits to Metuchen and Edgewater workers idled by May Detroit strike
Pub Opinion Polls survey repts 38% personnel dirs, NYC, prefer hs grads with business school training
Casting superstitious fears to the winds, the group of college juniors just arrived in New York to study social conditions numbers thirteen.
PARIS, Aug. 21 (AP) -- Officials of the Economic Cooperation Administration here have issued a booklet comparing the purchasing power of the American workingman with his counterpart in the Soviet Union.
Repr Wickersham plans legis for use of 1 Fed license in lieu of several state tags
NLRB backs teamsters right to make pacts barring handling of struck work and 'hot cargo,' Conway Express co case; dismisses secondary boycott charge; rejects local's performance bond plea; convicts local of threatening driver who worked during '47 strike
NYS PSC to weigh 2 1/2-yr survey of rates, property classifications and regulations before revising rates; plans hearing
ICC upholds div finding that primary business of operator determines classification as private or for-hire, Schenley Indus and Lenoir Chair Co cases
For the first time in its 100-year history, the manufactured ice industry was given a complete description yesterday of operations of a standard cost accounting system applied to a typical plant in that business. More than 400 members of the National Association of Ice Industries, in closing sessions of their thirty-second annual convention, held at the Commodore Hotel, heard Paul H. Andres, of Southwest Ice  Dairy Products Co., Oklahoma City.
ICC to study commodity rates and exceptions to class rates from NY area to New Eng; study spurred by New Eng carriers '48 plea for temporary 10% rise
union halts 7,000 Ohio drivers strike; talks on 25c hrly pay rise and welfare plan set
The Union Motor Truck Terminal in downtown Manhattan near the Holland Tunnel which was opened to operation yesterday by the Port of New York Authority is a pilot plant which will be watched with great interest by the trucking industry and by cities plagued with traffic congestion. It is an expensive operation, looked at in one way.
ICC aide urges ICC set minimum on motor-carrier class and commodity rates on most NY-Phila traffic; suggests gen 5% rise
Hell Co, Hillside, NJ, and UAWA Local 574 pact grants retroactive 5c-an-hr bonus payable 3 times yrly
US Sup Ct bars rev of Chicago and New Orleans cts findings that drivers of co-owned cabs are not employes subject to Fed soc security taxes
Beauty & Barber Supply Inst repts 40% rise in US salon business due to short hair vogue; styles illus
NLRB orders Teamsters Union Local 456 and trucker H M Newman, Mt Vernon, NY, to reimburse driver E Fritz Jr for wages lost when he was fired for owing union dues
Amer Trucking Assn issues manual on tariffs to facilitate natl pub of simple and uniform tariffs, gives 11 suggestions for issuance
6 charge NYC brewery workers local bars them from jobs for failure to picket in recent strike, complaint to NLRB
The announcement yesterday by the Graham-Paige Motors Corporation that it has sold a 50 per cent interest in its farm equipment business to the Mast-Foos Manufacturing Company and is relinquishing management of that business to the latter, removes Graham-Paige from the list of American industrial enterprises after forty years of operations.
DETROIT, July 29 (AP) -- Motor vehicle production in the United States and Canada this week will total 138,223 units, Ward's Automotive Reports estimated today. Included in the total will be 113,452 cars and 21,921 trucks built in the United States and 1,633 cars and 1,217 trucks made in Canada.
NLRB examiner backs secondary picketing at site of primary labor dispute, Sterling Beverages vs teamsters union
N. PETER RATHVON, who resigned as president of RKO last year after Howard Hughes bought control of the company, has entered the field of independent film financing on an extensive scale at a time when most other money sources, including the banks, have drastically curtailed their investments in motion pictures.
Several members of the Temporary National Economic Committee are said to be leaning toward the view that instead of a "single-standard" approach to the anti-trust problem, each industry should be studied separately and a separate set of competitive rules should be adopted for it in accordance with its particular requirements.
Over many individual steel plants fly pennants signifying Army-Navy E and Maritime M awards. Now, however, the steel industry as a whole, as represented by the American Iron and Steel Institute, has been honored by the bestowal of the Ordnance Distinguished Service Award.
Fortunately for the security and economy of the nation, the aircraft industry has shown an ability to resist the shock of transition from a war to a peacetime basis far beyond that predicted by many prophets.
Few things are more certain than that our predominant air power was a primary factor in the winning of the war.
It is not only at home that the American aircraft industry faces major problems this year. At the annual meeting of the Aeronautical Chamber of Commerce of America the retiring ...
After a study lasting almost fourteen months, instigated by former Representative Withrow of Wisconsin, the Federal Trade Commission has submitted to Congress a report comprising more than 3,500 pages, on the automotive industry.
The opening of the new Automobile Show finds the motor-car industry in the most favorable position it has occupied in recent years. Sales in the domestic market have been larger in 1935 than in any other year since 1930. Sales abroad have also been rising, and will top the 1930 figure by a small margin if exports continue at their present rate.
Ed on thesis that shift of 20% of labor force to other pursuits would benefit natl economies
With the end of war production a drift of women workers away from industrial employment was to be expected. A similar recession occurred after the First World War. But the speed at which this exodus is taking place is impressive.
R.J. Thomas, president of the United Automobile Workers, charges that "a little group of millionaires" has been holding up the settlement of wage disputes and that the question must soon be faced "whether there shall be industrial peace in America or whether we ...
It would be unwise to assume that the ten leaders of the American Federation of Labor who signed the "Call for United Action" speak for the great body of the union's membership. The signers are themselves careful to say that they speak only as individuals.
In Sunday's TIMES our Boston correspondent called attention to an industry of the first magnitude in New England which is seldom thought of in terms of business.
As railway wage readjustments prepare to march off the stage the revision of wages in the building trades comes on at the other end. The railroads occupy the more strategic position in our business life because they are interwoven with every phase of it. They are in a figurative as well as in a literal sense the lines of communication in our economic system.
THOSE who have had the privilege of following "the long brown path" over hill and valley know the advantage of stopping once and again to  take note of progress, to view the landscape and to determine, if possible, the forward course.
Engel's threat of thumbscrews to be used on those who work for private gain, compared with U S recovery act; Chicago Tribune ed
Secretary LAMONT has called a conference of bituminous coal operators and miners to meet in Washington. He is not optimistic enough to hope that "any big things" may be accomplished, but believes that the Government should offer to aid as best it can an industry which ...
ON the occasion of a Home Office screening that has not been as heartening as possible and such occasions seem to be distressingly frequent the following comments are invariably heard from the department heads, from President X on down the line;
Official figures covering the first six months of the year are announced by the Department of Commerce as 1,325 commercial airplanes and 359 military airplanes. Thus the young industry of aviation finds ...
The Iron Age, in its review of the current steel market, points out the actual source of the sudden and very large orders which have come to manufacturers since Sept. 1. "Comparatively little of the heavy inflow of tonnage," The Iron Age remarks, "has come from abroad."
Figures published by the Department of Commerce last week in connection with the biennial census of manufactures call attention again to the significant trends in the motor industry.
Members of Bldg Trades Employers Assn and AFL Bldg and Construction Trades Council agree on wage stabilization; pact assures 40-hr wk and pay rises; cuts overtime abuses and labor piracy; seen encouraging investment in field; C G Norman and H McSpedon announce pact
Bulletin discusses indus fatigue as factor in accidents; ventilation of rooms and rest periods proposed as remedies
HACKENSACK, N.J., Jan. 25-- A total of 7,786 permits for new construction of various types representing a value of $27,481,000, was issued by fifty-four of Bergen County's seventy municipalities during the first eleven months of 1946.
The entire August issue of The American Federationist is devoted to the progress of women workers. This year the National Women's Trade Union League was twentyfive years old, though this fact is not made the peg on which to hang ...
When Secretary HOOVER spoke to the cotton manufacturers about "obtaining representation in industry" he used language familiar, perhaps, to a few of his hearers, but unintelligible to our legislators at Washington. They represent territorial units -- Congressional districts or States.
Averages are fictions, and the truth is not in them. The roots of the present business depression must be sought in quarters where conditions are below the average, and there is one which has escaped attention. Our industries are usually divided into five classes--agriculture, manufactures, transportation, ...
USSR: material and indus plant losses stressed by Kuibeshev travelers in Cairo; supplies in Siberia and Central Asia stressed by Col N Klimoff and newspaper Pravda
Secretary of Labor DAVIS in his annual report recalls that after months  of idleness 600,000 miners on strike resumed work without a single change in wages or working conditions.
Before the war fewer than 350 planes carried all aviation passengers and cargo in this country. What of the future? The factories are producing over 10,000 planes of various types a month. It seems improbable that more than 1,000 commercial planes will be in service here for some years after peace comes.
John Hancock Life Ins Co appeals SLRB order to stop interfering with employes' right to organize; denies ins is an industry
INDUSTRIAL accidents cause the death of more than 22,000 persons annually, according to a compila  tion of statistics by the American Red Cross, based on reports of the Department of Labor and other official sources. Of every 100,000 American workmen employed, seven were killed in industrial accidents during 1918, the latest year for which complete statistics are available.
The meeting in memory of ANDREW CARNEGIE today is almost as much a tribute to a type as to a man, and is a warning that an era of industrial importance may be closed by natural and artificial limitations unless care to the contrary be taken.
In undertaking to create a new centre for studios and exhibitions, the artists of America show a laudable determination to be no longer hornswoggled. They have been ejected from Greenwich Village, they say, by the rapacity of the very landlords whose fortunes they created.
London. THE chief barrier to a settlement of the reparations problem is the real difference in economic funda  mentals in France and England. In the latter country the payment of the indemnity would close down a large percentage of British industry. France, being an agricultural rather than
As production figures climb steadily in the huge aircraft plants of the Pacific Coast and the mid-continent and in the automotive plants now fabricating parts and engines, the close cooperation of the airplane and the automobile industries becomes increasingly apparent.
Current reports from two important industries offer a remarkable contrast. Railway freight carloadings for the week ended on July 13 are estimated at about 565,000. This is some 40,000 cars below the figure for the corresponding week last year and some 80,000 below the figure for the same week in 1933.
The merging of three or four of the largest chemical and dye manufacturing companies in this country suggests the widening expansion of American industry through science. Wartime necessity quickened American invention.
Clinton Natl Lab, Oak Ridge, Tenn, to get new and bigger chain-reactor pile for indus power research
When Mr. GOMPERS said that unionism had wrecked "the autocratic concept in industry," he meant that the masters' day was past and that the workers' day had come.
Natl Council ratifies decree giving govt control over every indus employing more than 50 persons per shift
Industry in he first half of January is reported ?? be less active, but, with the exeption of textiles, the decline was confined to the outdoor branches. The number of unemployed in Deember increased by 422,000, of which 222,000 were in the building industries.
The investigation of the progress of our defense efforts and of the conduct of the war is one of the most important functions that Congress can perform. But as there is opportunity to study various parts of the Truman committee's report in detail, it is unfortunately becoming evident that in many directions the committee has done its job badly.
WASHINGTON, June 23.--Encouraged by the Federal Government, industrial activity in Australia is expanding rapidly, the Commerce Department reports. Construction of a large number of plants for the manufacture of steel tubing, aluminum, chemical products, rubber insulated cables and radio valves soon will begin. Proposals also are before the government in connection with the early production of automobiles and tin plate.
Not only THE NEW YORK TIMES but the entire newspaper industry suffers keen loss in the death of Mr. Louis Wiley. Though he was associated with THE TIMES for thirty-nine years, and though he made its development his life work, his interests extended to all American journalism and his influence was felt far beyond the confines of his own office.
MUSICIANS have talked about the importance of music to morale. What do industrialists think about the matter? According to the results of a recent poll conducted by Sigmund Gottlober of Concert Program Magazines, they pretty well agree with the musicians.
ALTHOUGH limitations of space have made it necessary for  Mr. Dale to treat with brevity a good many matters that he thinks deserve extended exposition, his ...
The growth and magnitude of the automobile industry were outlined on the automobile page of Sunday's TIMES. The growth of the electric industry alone rivals it. Together they are modifying our social life in a bewildering manner, and have an economic importance of the first rank.
Donald T. Pomeroy of Syracuse will, explain the methods of utilizing industrial properties worked out recently in that city to the delegates at the forthcoming convention of the National Association of Real Estate Boards in Pittsburgh, beginning Oct. 20.
LONDON, May 26 -- Germany is being compelled to disperse her war industries more and more to southeastern Europe as a result of the growing weight of Allied air attacks, and the United States Army Air Force's day attacks are greatly accelerating this process, particularly with regard to the airplane and motor industries, it was stated at the Ministry of Economic Warfare today.
With the government fearful of an oil monopoly on the one hand and unchecked waste on the other, the industry is standing perplexedly at a cross-roads. All parties to the discussion agree that overproduction should stop at once.
MOSCOW, Dec. 26 (AP) -- Considerable easing of the present pace of industrial construction in the Soviet Union beginning with the advent of the second Five-Year Plan was seen today in an announcement that the State's capital investment in all Socialist economy in 1933 will be more than 3,000,000,000 rubles less than in 1932.
When our Army reaches its probable total of 7,500,000 men its rations for a month will be nearly equal in bulk to the Empire State Building. The soldier eats five and a half pounds of food a day, or a pound and a half more than the civilian. Figures like these, furnished by Army statisticians, give a hint as to what the American farmer's job in wartime is.
Investments Now Exceed $1,000,000,000, New Manual Reports. There is an investment of more than $1,000,000,000 in the sugar industry, according to the 1927 edition of the Manual of Sugar Companies, compiled by Farr  Co. Of this total more than 75 per cent. represents investment in companies engaged in the production and refining of cane sugar, the remainder being made up of the outstanding preferred and common stocks and funded debts of beet sugar companies.
TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES: In your editorial of Dec. 24 "The Labor Agreement" you state that the government "must declare, as the War Labor Board did in 1917, that any demand from either side for a change in the status of the closed or open shop shall not be considered a proper grievance for submission to a war labor board or to arbitration."
PARIS, Nov. 19 (AP). -- The skyrocketing of the franc is hitting French industry hard. A sharp decline in the volume of retail trade in Paris, reduction of the working force in certain industries and the increased embarrassment of people who are long on stocks of countries having a high exchange are the first concrete evidences of the harm done by the recent improvement of the franc.
CHICAGO, April 2 -- A music industry program has been launched by a group of industry associations, William A. Milles, executive secretary of the National Association of Music Merchants, announced today. Dr. Albert Raring, professor of marketing, Indiana University, was appointed program consultant for the music industry.
THE last few years have seen many books dealing with one or another phase of the indus  trial problem, but this one stands ont unique among them because of the comprehension it shows of the ...
If one out of every five persons in the United States owns a motor vehicle, there must be more than 23,000,000 persons interested in the industry of making and selling cars and trucks. In many families wives and sons or daughters like to go to automobile shows or to read about new models and prices.
Only a bold prophet would predict when the Steel Corporation will cease bettering expectation and reporting marvels each of which would be incredible if it stood by itself and was not attested by accounting self-imposed and stricter than any required by Government regulation.
STEEL, that American giant which has been basic in the development of our industrial life, is about to enter new fields of application and usefulness an extent never before anticipated. The rate of invention in the steel business has been speeded up during the depression; new steels and new uses for steel have been developed to such a degree that steel has not only caught up with the times but is actually ahead of them.
ISTANBUL, Dec. 21. -- The new Turkish aim to make the country self-sufficient is slowly but surely being achieved. She has the necessary agricultural products and foodstuffs in abundance and here, mainly, it is a question of organization.
A statistical review of the spinning industry of Japan, as compiled by the Japan Chronicle, shows an increase of $3,639,050 in the capital involved in this industry during the first half of 1919, as compared with the same period of the previous year.
Rensselaer Polytechnic Inst survey shows execs expect 10-yr personnel shortage; repts many believe indus should aid schools financially to meet demand
CHICAGO, Aug. 28 -- The meat industry, the farmers, cattle feeders, packers and retail butchers, joined today in asserting that all other alternatives for reducing meat consumption should be exhausted before reviving the meatless days of the last war as proposed by President Roosevelt.
Wirebound Box Mfrs Assn repts on indus business vol, '44; estimates lumber saved by use since fall of France
Unemployment in Great Britain at the beginning of the new year shows a decline of only about 13,000 from the figures of a year ago. The number of persons registered with the employment exchanges on Dec. 29 was 1,272,600. The increase of more than 103,000 over the previous week is so extraordinary as to suggest some special cause, possibly a desire to change from one occupation or locality to another.
The arrangement by which Mr. FRANKLIN D. ROOSEVELT is to become mentor of a nation-wide organization of the building industry is, consciously or unconsciously, an answer to those who call for a drastic prosecution of trade associations under the ...
National and international aspects of the petroleum industry will be discussed at the annual meeting of the American Petroleum Institute which will be held in Washington on Nov. 17, 18 and 19. Invitations have been extended to the petroleum representatives of twenty-one foreign governments.
Amtorg Trading Corp announces that delegation of porcelain and glass trust of Ukraine will visit glass and china factories in U S
Gets controlling interest in Geometric Stamping Co; acquisition of controlling interest in Kermath Mfg Co and full control of Jacobs Aircraft Engine Co noted
Daly Bros Shoe Co tells Belfast, Me, Mayor it will move its factory if another is permitted to locate in town
WASHINGTON, Dec. 1 (AP) -- The Office of Defense Transporta tion today "froze" the rental car industry. The order affects approximately 300,000 livery cars, 28,000 funeral cars and 5,000 drive-yourself cars. The order provides that no person or company not licensed in the rental car business as of today may engage in the business, and that no person or company may increase the number of vehicles now engaged in rental service.
The domestic occupations of women are dwindling. Grandmothers who manufactured in the home apparelings and foods that are now produced by great special industries can testify to a modern lightening of the housewife's burden. Homemade bread has hitherto maintained firmly a position of rivalry and superiority to the "boughten" kind.
Woodpulp Consumers Assn urges US to develop woodpulp indus; says forest reserves can supply 800,000 tons of sulphate or sulphite woodpulp yrly
In comparison with the Red demands of the Italian metal workers, who lately seized the factories and tried to operate them through soviets or committees, the plan. which the Glolitti Government has outlined for industrial control by labor is so palely ...
The Administration's plan for curing the "sick" coal industry, as outlined in the House by Representative BLAND, goes straight to the seat of the malady --the "lean" mine working "the thin coal vein with the slate band."
Corral Smelting Works pres holds installation of modern equipment will permit steel industry to supply local demands, rept to Finance Min
BUCHAREST, Wednesday, Jan. 22 (AP) -- Widespread disorders in Rumania, including the slaying of a German officer, prompted Premier General Ion Antonescu to put the army in charge of the State police, militarize eighty-seven important industries, and make a desperate appeal last night to dissident Iron Guards to "forget hatreds" and aid him in re-establishing order.
Superior Ct rules town may not spend taxpayers' money to attract new industries, grants injunction to G R Rood against Windham Selectmen
Speaking for the national organization of railway shopmen, BERT M. JEWELL threatens a strike unless the Railroad Labor Board, an arm of the Federal Government, reverses recent decisions, among them a wage cut amounting to 560,000,000. In significant contrast with this comes an...
Reports on the examination of more than 2,000,000 factory workers throughout the country indicate that one out of every three needs eyesight correction, according to W. T. Cameron, of the American Optical Company, Southbridge, Mass.
PHILADELPHIA, Sept. 12 -- A spokesman for the eight major anthracite producers informed Leon Henderson, Price Administrator, today that the companies "cannot accede to any arbitrary price ceiling" which would hamper the industry's present wage structure and reduction of operating deficits.
R E Brown warns on monoply trend, rept to Amer Independent Petroleum Assn; protests steel pipe shipment to Middle East
OPA simplifies method of rationing light grade fuel oil used by industries for purposes other than heating
E Nettleton urges promotion by New Eng Council; E Henderson on promotion; Boston data center planned
The conflict between the Western packing houses and the national union of meat cutters and butchers may well prove the opening of a new chapter in the history of organized labor. The "plant congress"--which ...
IN the year now closing the anthracite coal trade has achieved a new high tonnage record, and fortunately for those concerned in the production thereof, the demand has been such that all the coal produced has been disposed of at the established prices, so that a very satisfactory business year has been experienced.
GOVT CONTROLS AND POLICIES, Dem com chmn G Sullivan blames Repub pressure for price control end
The classified figures of foreign trade for February reveal that the difference between the decrease of imports and increase of exports is practically all supplied by manufacturers' materials, to a total of approximately thirty millions of dollars. Other changes nearly balance at eight millions.
It is interesting to note, in connection with the renewed activities of the Woman's Party, that the last issue of Equal Rights, its official organ, calls attention to the great decrease in the number of women engaged in domestic service, as shown by the last census.
US State Dept aide H A Byroade notes aim of dismantling program to limit war potential
Brit Parliamentary mission repts on tour says reconstruction priority is being given to indus enterprises, pub bldgs, schools and housing, in order
Joseph P. Kennedy's informal discussion of his brief months of stewardship of the Maritime- Commission, as delivered extemporaneously to the press last Friday, accompanying the issuance of minimum wage and minimum manning standards for the 10,000 seamen who man our Government-subsidized vessels, was in the nature of a preview of the forthcoming report.
Fed Ct signs liquidation order following citizens' failure to raise amt needed for reorganization, Schuvlkill Haven, Pa
ILGWU repr L Teper says indus is being squeezed between textile mfg combines and buying groups, house subcom monopoly inquiry; cites records; recommendations noted
S H Slichter article on what to do when strike threatens pub health or safety; illus
CAMERIDGE, Mass. CAPITAL and labor, art and industry, human relations and market analysis, in fact most of the antitheses which are generally accepted in the world of business, are finding new, correlated niches in the field of business education.
PEOPLE who ride on rubber tires recently marked a momentous anniversary. It was sixty years ago that an Englishman named Wickham turned up at Kew Botanical Gardens in London with 70,000 wild rubber seeds which he had smuggled out of the Amazon forests in Brazil.
Reports of trade from industrial centers of Britain continue encouraging. Orders placed by Russia in August amounted to [Pound]1,781,524, against [Pound]795,110 a year ago, making [Pound]13,673,386 in the eight months through August, compared with [Pound]6,848,159 in the corresponding period of 1936.
CAPTAIN L.H. MANDER, an Englishman who has been visiting in Germany, writes to The London  Times that the Germans consider the proposed American tariff on foreign films as directed especially against them and are proud of it. He says:
THE radio industry has reached a point in industrial activity where not only its rapid development but its actual size makes it of commanding importance, Frank A. Arnold, Director of Development of the National Broadcasting Company of New York told the Rotary Club of Washington, D.C.
pre-armistice directive to Eisenhower noted; post-war control of industry mapped at Que conf; Roosevelt and Churchill reptd favoring occupation until Ger menace is ended; proposed area div outlined; J F Byrnes rejection of apptmt as Amer High Comr for southern area noted; closer US-GB-USSR liaison sought; Eur Advisory Com inability to work out joint policy Cited; Morgenthau visit to Que conf with plan for Ger noted
Hatchings of the entire spread of Japanese silk-egg cards indicate an increase of 7.30 per cent, in the season's crop over last year.
That cities in which bituminous coal is used are getting rid of the smoke nuisance, and that black smoke issuing from a modern manufactory or power plant is a badge of bad engineering and management, is due to the economic saving effected in smoke abatement. Mr. A.S. ATKINSON declares in the current number of Moody's Magazine that "the modern mechanical stoker has saved millions of dollars' worth of coal."
WHILE old age for women socially has been steadily receding, for women in indus  try it hap been rapidly advancing toward the cradle. Socially, a woman of 50 now considers herself no older than once she did at 35. But Miss Lobsenz assures us and brings ample proof that in some phases...
Articles more than 100 years old as well as relics, without regard to age, of persons famous in the development of Norway may not be exported without special permit, according to a law recently enacted in Norway.
For the first time in twelve years labor-management relations last week were governed by a new "book of rules." On Monday the Senate, by six votes more than the necessary two-thirds majority, passed the Labor -Management Relations Act, 1947, over the President's veto.
A P Fourie, South African Min of Mines and Industries, confers with reps of Assn of Diamond Cutters in Holland on agreement
The Board of Trade in London is showing great good sense in wresting from the lamentable conditions of the war such profit as they may offer to English industrial workers. It has organized at the Goldsmiths' Hall an exhibition of German and Austrian objects typifying successful design as applied to articles of manufacture.
The American Contractor's building statistics contain suggestions of more than local interest, although the local facts are among the most striking of the National exhibit. The National total of constructions projected shows a decrease of 3 per cent. It could hardly be more satisfactory if made to order. It is just enough to indicate a beneficial reaction from extreme activity.
Interlocking corporations organized by farmers--and Mr. BARUCH--have formed a curious combination. There is no doubt that it is a combination...
Steel plumbing fixture div of Porcelain Enamel Inst tells NSRB indus can convert 100% to war output
City planning commissions and local authorities should be made to realize that industry no longer can be treated as a poor relation or a necessary evil when zoning regulations are drawn up, Ralph G. Schwebemeyer of Newark, N.J., president of the Society of Industrial Realtors of the National Association of Real Estate Boards, declared yesterday.
WASHINGTON, Jan. 29. -- The doubling of import duties by Sweden on importations of foreign motor cars will affect shipments of such vehicles from the United States to one of its foremost markets abroad. Exports to Sweden of American automobiles and trucks during the first eleven months of 1931 were valued at $5,649,882, of which passenger cars accounted for $3,902,753 and trucks $1,747,124.
The petticoat manufacturing industry, which for twenty-five years was one of the most flourishing industries in the whole world, became so demoralized since the introduction of fashions that did away with the use of petticoats or narrowed them down so as to make them unwearable, that the industry is now almost extinct in this part of the country.
WASHINGTON, Aug. 8 (UP) -- The National Association of Manufacturers recommended today that labor unions be made subject to the anti-trust laws and that industry-wide bargaining be prohibited.
American Consular officers in the Netherlands report that exports declared to the United States in August amounted to $3,037,000, including flower bulbs at $3,037,000, diamonds at $1,664,000 and tin at $1,065,000.
The plan for broad price reductions announced last week by the United States Steel Corporation was met with considerable surprise and approbation in industry circles, but most observers wonder whether the action will result in any substantial lowering of the cost plateau for steel consumers and whether it will be reflected down the line in the general cost of living.
US State Dept announces US-Brit pact to bar Ger cos and their branches in former occupied countries from collaboration with Axis; will also use blacklists against Japan
CEA annual rept; Admr Mehl urges limits on 4 more commodities; asks amendments to Commodity Exch Act; repts on study of traders profit and loss
Texas production credit assns to complete repayment of $8-million Govt loan under '33 Farm Credit Act; to run own credit system
Prof O Warburg and other scientists rept plants utilize 65-87% of sunlight energy in photosynthesis and breathe and burn own sugar in growth process
No less a person than Palmiro Togliatti, leader of the Italian Communists, has stated that party members under his jurisdiction are free to adhere to any church or religion they chose. Nevertheless it is plain that the Communists consider the Holy Year ceremonies, which have begun with such impressive pageantry and popular enthusiasm, as a challenge.
Sec Sawyer says price declines acct for natl income drop of less than 2%, '49; figures
police turn back peasants entering Rome; arrest 400 Communists defying meeting ban; gen strike declared by Communists; canceled as ineffective
economists see price support policies cutting sales to Eur; B H Thibodeaux rept to ECA sees W Eur big market after ERP ends; sees payment problem
NLRB rules AFL Farm Labor Union cannot be prosecuted under Taft-Hartley Act for alleged secondary boycott and coercion of Di Giorgio Fruit workers, Bakersfield, Calif, '47; dismisses charges against AFL Teamsters local 87; finds local 848 and Wine Workers local guilty of secondary boycott
J G Patton urges Natl Farmers Union members to back ADA plea for Extension Service Independence from Amer Farm Bur Fed
call rally, Rome, to protest reform delays; attempt to sabotage Holy Yr rites seen; police mobilization planned
H McCleland opens ERP-financed Neto valley irrigation project; urges speedy reform; J D Zellerbach says ECA backs reform, message; Communists protest police action, Montescaglioso
Govt moves and Communist countermoves in land reform crisis discussed; Liberal party opposes reform; ERP projects seen vital
Natl Assembly of Farmers and Stock Raisers meets, Madrid, to push syndication; presents program to Generalissimo Franco; Franco on agr problems; Madrid Ya urges land reform
CHICAGO, Dec. 14 -- Farmers should speak for themselves on national agricultural policy, and other groups, including government agencies, business and labor, should not try to "call the shots" for farmers, Senator Clinton P. Anderson, Democrat, of New Mexico, said today.
bur council votes to ban foreign workers; urges USES use NFLU and other labor orgns to place domestic workers
AFL Natl Farm Labor Union (NFLU) urges ban on Mex and other foreign workers, lr to Employment Security Bur; repts 71,067 Mexicans here illegally
CHICAGO, Dec. 13 -- The American Farm Bureau Federation will detail in a resolution its official opposition to the program proposed by Secretary of Agriculture Charles F. Brannan in addition to restating its position for flexible price supports for farm products, it was learned today.
CHICAGO, Dec. 12 -- Secretary of Agriculture Charles F. Brannan appealed to the American Farm Bureau Federation today for a full and free discussion of price supports for farm products, including his own plan, and the federation's president promptly questioned his motives in making the appeal.
copies of Sec Brannan speech scoring certain farm groups leaders distributed; rumor Brannan seeks to unseat pres A B Kline discussed
Belgrade Borba survey shows over 1 million arable acres unplanted; repts winter sowing, Dobruja, only 50% completed; blames forced collectivization
Council chooses 14 member Com on Commodity Problems; Dir Gen Dodd disappointed by rejection of clearing house; F Rossiter repts US backs com
seizures spread to Sardinia; Rome area farmhands threaten strike over arrest of Communist leader; Govt reinforces police
H Hanover charges co farms exploit children, Joint Legis com; Comr Corsi asks power to license employment agencies; G Rublen urges 8-hr work day; Mrs E Marconnier repts 3,366 children illegally employed, '49
J de Galindez lr replies to M de Echegaray lr of Nov 29 on Spain's admission
CIO Econ Outlook (pub) repts net dropped $1 billion, '48; repts 70% of farmers earned less than $3,000, '47
WASHINGTON, Dec. 3 -- One of the major problems facing the world today is the distribution of food. For the past two weeks this and other food problems have been under study by the Food and Agricultural Organization of the United Nations which is holding its fifth annual conference here.
FAO working party proposes Com on Commodity Problems to gather data on surpluses and initiate trade pact confs; rejects commodity clearing house
US State Dept approves Rome hdqrs; Council election; Czech repr scores Yugoslav election as E Eur repr; Israeli and Egyptian reprs wrangle; finances $1,969,782 in arrears
R S Roberts repts US will pay 27.1% of budget, '49; asks US share eventually be ltd to 25%; com urges bi-yrly meetings
Dir Gen Dodd asks member nations to raise contributions to cover cost of moving to Rome; asks const changes to meet currency situation; com set up to study financial problems
Prof V Rumyantsev scores Dr N Jasny study, lr in Moscow Izvestia; Moscow Pravda cites gains to peasants through collectivization; Jasny comments
50,000 Kisans (peasants) march through Lucknow in pol demonstration; Min B R Ambedkar warns on denial of equality
WASHINGTON, Nov. 25 -- Many small nations and independent organizations had their say today in behalf of the International Commodity Clearing House proposed by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations. The plan was killed yesterday by the big nations.
Deputy P Togliatti repts he plans more peasant agitation; 12-hr gen strike, Palermo, backs peasant demands
US mission leaves Szechwan Prov as Communist armies approach; Chinese to continue program with ECA funds
Spanish membership bid rejected; Israel, Indonesia and Korea accepted; Maryland Univ offers hdqrs site on campus; repts Md offers $3.5 million for bldg; NAACP opposes site
L Eshkol repts Jewish Agency for Palestine seeks $78.4 million to set up farm settlements for 60,000 immigrants
WASHINGTON, Nov. 22 (AP) -- Following is the text of a speech by President Truman today to the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations:
A year ago in an address to the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization President Truman touched for the first time on the idea which was to develop subsequently into the now famous "Point Four" of his Inaugural. It was natural and appropriate, therefore, that he should have come back to that theme when he again spoke before the annual conference of the same group in Washington yesterday.
Albert S. Goss, head of the National Grange, in an address before the annual meeting of that organization the other day, paid his respects to the Brannan farm plan. Mr. Goss is old-fashioned enough to believe, it seems, that an economy that lives on such stimulants as government subsidies is headed in the general direction of moral and financial bankruptcy.
Min Scelba orders peasants evicted from newly seized land; new clashes with police reptd, S Italy; Premier de Gasperi arrives on inspection tour
Amer Farm Bur Fed splits with Adm over policies; Illinois Agr Assn scores Sec Brannan for promoting policies originating in exec branch of Govt
Cabinet Council approves bill to redistribute land to 20,000 peasants, Calabria; J D Zellerbach repts 30 big ECA-sponsored projects to spur output set
ECA funds make possible land reform law cutting Szechwan Prov peasants rents 25%; W I Ladejinsky sees reform successful; other provs plan reforms
Farmers to vote on accepting Reclamation Bur irrigation contracts, Heart River Dam area, ND; many opposed
N Central Regional Com on Land Tenure Research survey shows corps own 20% of land in 13 Midwest states and individuals 94%; table; shows corps own 5.6% of all US land; links ownership to business cycles
EPHRATA, Wash., Nov. 11 -Difficult financial problems face the state of Washington, several of its county governments and thousands of potential settlers on its Columbia Basin project before the Federal Bureau of Reclamation's biggest single irrigation undertaking is fully developed.
Reclamation Bur plans to cut farm size and redistribute land, Columbia Basin, Wash, for efficient irrigation; many farmers opposed
Dir Gen Dodd backs clearing house with $1 billion capital; warns price drops threaten farmers in some areas; pledges US tech aid to all nations
100,000 migrants, San Joaquin Valley, Calif, face idleness in winter; lack savings; labor bur tries to halt further influx
Following is the text of the address by President Truman in St. Paul, Minn., last night at the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the creation of Minnesota as a territory of the United States, as recorded and transcribed by THE NEW YORK TIMES:
US State Dept opposes FAO commodity clearing house plan; backs bilateral trade pacts; plan seen defeated
DP Comm to clear only 8,200 for admission, Nov; blames Baits and certain others priorities for 50% cut
state resettlement burs conf, St Paul; Comr O'Connor repts 110,613 DPs admitted; fears '48 Act quota will be unfilled
Pres Truman vetoes bill for big farms irrigation from San Luis Valley reclamation project; urges legis cover all reclamation projects
press hails Prof Lysenko's nest system of forestation using agr crops to protect trees growth from seeds to saplings; repts reforestation goals topped
Agr Dept admits '50 plan lets farmers who curb basic crops use acreage for uncontrolled crops; sees big surpluses
Dr H A Rusk on joint WHO-FAO conf, Geneva, on spurring output in under-developed areas by curbing disease
Gen MacArthur squelches Diet plan to revise land reform program; warns reforms must be permanent, lr to Premier Yoshida
bill for Farmers Home Adm to make loans on land acquired under Homestead and Reclamation Acts signed
Rutgers Univ tests on P M Mazur farm, Fiddler's Creek, NJ, aided by 5 cos; illus
WASHINGTON, Oct. 18 -- A Senate-House conference committee agreed unanimously today on a compromise Farm Bill embodying the principle of flexible price supports as a long-range peacetime policy but assuring high props during a transitory period.
Sen conferees reject House proposal to extend 90% supports 5 yrs; backers of high supports claim gains
Repr White repts Pres Truman favors supports at 90% of parity and would approve Anderson bill as stop-gap legis
Article by Prof Harry Schwartz repts that Stanford Univ study by Dr N Jasny sees threat to regime in failure to expand agr to supply growing urban population; holds juggled statistics hide failure; repts big output drops in uninvaded areas during war; repts per capita income dropped 10%, '28-38, through collectivization, and output rose only 20%
The Senate did a constructive day's work Friday in the area of farm legislation. It got the Anderson bill, which had been derailed earlier in the week, back on the track and headed in the right direction.
Belgrade Borba repts 40% rise in USSR-type co-ops, Mar to mid-Sept; repts many middle peasants join
3 US experts complete ECA survey for GB; urge study to spur output; cite Brit shortage of experts; urge US aid
Young-Russell amendment for supports at 90% of parity passed, Sen, 38-37, on Vice Pres Barkley vote; Barkley comment; Anderson motion to return bill to com passed; roll calls; amendment seen adding $2 billion a yr to costs
Dir Gen Dodd article urges tech aid and simple, low-cost projects to spur output in underdeveloped areas; illus
Harvester offers welfare program to be financed by co and employes; CIO equipment workers and UAWA reprs comment
CHICAGO, Sept. 29 -- A drive to improve the economic and social conditions of the country's 1,500,000 migrant agricultural workers and their families was started today at the National Conference on the Church and Migratory labor.
Israel protests to UN on Lebanese ban on Israeli reprs to Beirut conf; sees conf moved to Eur; Arabs reply
CHICAGO, Sept. 27 -- Migrant farm workers, who make up about one-fifth of the agricultural labor force of the United States, now number almost 900,000, an increase of more than 40 per cent since the end of World War II.
WASHINGTON, Sept. 23 -- Testimony before the Gillette committee investigating price spreads between farmer and consumer today enlarged on the theme that one avenue to lower prices rested in giving up the quart at the door for the pick-up at the grocery store.
Sen (Gillette) subcom hearing on spread between farm and consumer prices; Gillette blames distribution and processing costs
FAO (Dodd) com proposes internatl clearing house, with $5 billion capital, to channel surpluses of hard-currency areas to soft-currency deficit areas; multiple price system planned; com list
ALBANY, Sept. 15 -- Following is the text of the speech by Senator John Foster Dulles accepting the Republican nomination for the Senate:
G R Clapp urges refugees be put to work on short-range development projects to cut relief needs; warns of aid fund lack; seeks Arab states aid; Lebanese police break up refugees demonstration, Beirut, against Clapp mission
Prof Reifenberg lr scores Arab demand for Israeli lands for resettlement; sees arable land available in Arab states
Inter-Amer Labor Confed to set up Continental Agrarian Comm to aid farmers; urges big estates be broken up
Natl Farmers Union pres to conf with Sec Brannan on setting up natl co-op system; opposes Govt bldg
F and C Brown held, Hermondale, Mo, for kidnaping R L Talley, Arkansas Negro, for forced labor; Atty Gen McGrath studies peonage charge
Dr J R Wilson warns agr insecticide mfrs to test human effects before marketing; repts DDT may be harmful; Drs S W Simmons and H F Smythe Jr on safety
Netherlands credits its recovery to ERP; repts output fills domestic needs and allows big exports; B H Thibodeaux warns output plans must be flexible
Following are the texts of President Truman's Labor Day addresses yesterday at the Allegheny County Fair, Pittsburgh, and the convention of the American Veterans of World War II, Des Moines, as recorded and transcribed by THE NEW YORK TIMES:
Midwest farmers seen aloof to farm-labor tie; UAWA repr D Montgomery s on hostility to labor noted
Comr Straus repts irrigated lands feed 10-15% of population; urges extension of irrigation by natl programs and internatl pacts; other proposals
Dr K D Butler and E T Benson urge leadership in service to agr; C Schuman warns against special interests
sees more price drops threat to natl econ; J T Sanders repts Natl Grange backs Anderson bill, Sen com; Natl Farmers Union backs and Illinois Agr Assn opposes Gore bill
Sen E Thomas to urge extension of present supports; cites Sec Brannan objections to Anderson bill
R M Salter repts yield per acre rose 50% in 20 yrs; Prof Howard on crop damage of all types
Govt opens drive to end breach of regulations on collectives; charges officials with abuses; conditions likened to '46
Sir H Broadley urges world fund to plan cultivation of new lands; sees progress slow; cites areas awaiting development; Prof Stamp urges intensive farming
Sen E Thomas cancels Sen com hearing on Anderson bill because of lack of quorum; favors Gore bill; repts Brannan dissatisfied with Anderson bill
R K Patil apptd Food Production Comr with special powers to spur output; move credited to Lord Boyd Orr
WASHINGTON, Aug. 8 -- By a vote of 63 to 7 the Senate passed tonight a $5,647,724,000 appropriation bill to finance foreign aid -- the Marshall Plan, Army occupational costs and continued assistance to Greece and Turkey -- through the current fiscal year.
machinists strike enters 4th day, Harvester Louisville plant; co cancels talks because of alleged illegal picketing
Dir Gen Dodd sees FAO moving to Eur unless US Cong issues inv for permanent US hdqrs
Sen Anderson offers plan for flexible support for some crops and rigid controls for others; Sens reaction
WASHINGTON, Aug. 3 -- Following is the roll-call by which the Senate voted today, 52 to 32, to sustain Vice President Barkley's ruling that the farm surplus amendment of Senator John L. McClellan, Democrat, of Arkansas, to the Foreign Aid Appropriation Bill was new legislation subject to a point of order:
Royal Inst of Internatl Affairs blames hasty land reforms for pending econ crisis in East; sees Soviet-type collectivization doomed to fail
wholesale price rises 2c, NYC; Butter & Egg Merchants Assn scores Agr Dept for raising support prices prematurely
From time to time the Russians observe cynically that the sole purpose of the Marshall Plan is to furnish a dumping-ground for surplus American products. The genesis and the administration of the Marshall Plan give the lie to these Russian statements. But the debate on the new foreign aid appropriation bill makes it clear that there are at least some members of Congress who would like to validate the Russian point of view.
Last week the House rejected emphatically the Pace farm bill, a version of Agriculture Secretary Brannan's policy recommendations. Having done that, it voted to repeal the present (Aiken) law, which, although it has been on the statute books since 1948, does not actually become operative until Jan. 1, 1950.
Sen (E Thomas) com orders Anderson subcom to draft support plan based on Aiken Act; instructions listed; move seen taking issue from partisan pol
WASHINGTON, July 28 -- The $5,723,724,000 foreign aid programs remained snarled tonight in the Senate Appropriations Committee, to which the bill for approval of the funds was returned yesterday after four days of floor debate.
Ford Motor Co and other defendants in anti-trust suit by H Ferguson deny charges, Fed ct; ask damages for allegations and suit dismissal
WASHINGTON, July 21 -- The House, dealing the Truman Administration a severe defeat, decisively rejected the Brannan farm program today and passed a bill to continue the present agri cultural price support system for another year.
Argentine Deputy Araya charges Govt agency bought at excessive prices 5,000 US tractors Unsuited to Argentine use
Min Win repts internal strife wanes, int, NYC; describes 4 rebel groups and efforts for accord with Karens; says Govt plans econ reconstruction program
Cooley offer of compromise on Pace bill rejected, House; scored by Repr Gore; 1-crop test rejected, Sen subcom
Dir Gen Dodd sees underdeveloped areas output spurred at small cost; urges Govts drop big projects for simple tech processes
31 4-H Club members chosen by Internatl Farm Youth Exch Project leave for Eur; illus; Grocery Mfrs holds bon-voyage dinner, NYC
Vt and NH farmers see 5,000 acres menaced by proposed power co dam, Wilder, Vt; urge lower dam; backed by Sen Aiken
Repr Arends rallies House Repubs against Pace bill; Repr Cooler comments; Natl Farmers Union pres J G Patton backs plan, Sen subcom
Repr Gore scores Brannan plan; repts it was not '48 campaign issue; leads House Dems revolt over Pace bill; bill passed by com; seen defeated
The importance of research has been impressed on the public mind in recent years, culminating in the atomic bomb, which possibly saved hundreds of thousands of American lives. There is agitation...
The House Appropriations Committee used some noble language in reporting the Agriculture Department's 1948 budget on Friday.
Anderson bill to admit Mex and other W Hemisphere workers to meet shortages scored by State Dept and FSA, Sen subcom
When the twenty-fifth anniversary of the foundation of the International Institute of Agriculture, as the result of the pioneer work of DAVID LUBIN, was celebrated in Rome in October of 1930, America was officially absent. This appeared tragic to those aware of the part LUBIN, who came to America as a child, had had in bringing into existence this world organization representing man's common interest in the industry which is basic to all others.
Today the Senate is set to vote on the new Farm Bill. It will almost certainly be passed. Though as it emerged from conference it is 121 pages long, and practically a new measure compared with the widely differing bills originally passed by the Senate and the House, it will have been debated by the Senate for only a few days and by the House for just four hours.
One of the by-products of The National Republic, which has suddenly set out to fight " radicalism " by means of a subsidy, is an article by the Secretary of Agriculture on the utilization of our agricultural by-products. It has been also circulated ...
Monday's Supreme Court decision does not mean that the Government has won its case against the Chicago milk companies. It merely means that the particular ground on which the District Court quashed the indictment is ...
The Department of Agriculture will celebrate its seventy-fifth anniversary next week-a life span that has seen it develop from a free-seed distributing agency to an organization directing activities that involve $500,000,000 annual expenditure.
McClellan amendment to ECA fund bill requiring ECA buy $1.5 billion of US surpluses passed, Sen com; Admr Hoffman and aides protest to Pres Truman
The nature of the attack which Congress is making, in the name of economy, upon the research workers in the Department of Agriculture is illustrated by the remarks of Representative GILBERT N. HAUGEN of Iowa.
WASHINGTON, July 11 -- Following is the text of President Truman's mid-year economic report to Congress submitted today:
For the first quarter of the fiscal year, which in Russia begins on Oct. 1, Moscow reports a gratifying development in foreign trade. Exports surpass imports by the sum of 76,000,000 gold rubles, as against an unfavorable balance of nearly 30,000,000 rubles in the corresponding quarter of the previous year.
HENRY FORD's proposal to solve the farm problem by "mass production," like most of his plans for industrial problems other than his own, has something of cheerful vagueness. The idea of producing grain on one large farm or group of farms, in such quantity and with...
Agr Dept repts 30-billion dollar wartime increase in farm owner and tenant equities; H R Tolley finds agr financial position strong; cites dollar value rise, '40-44; repts on farm marketing cash receipts, Jan-Sept
Sec Anderson resignation effective May 10; Under-Sec Dodd, Asst Sec Brannan and Repr J W Flannagan Jr mentioned as possible successors
John M. Goetchius was elected a Director of the International Agriculture Corporation to succeed J.R. Floyd, resigned. Other Directors were re-elected at the annual meeting of stockholders.
Governor ROOSEVELT's address at Syracuse should help city people to realize that we do not have to go far to find farming problems. We have them at our own doors.
AGRICULTURE has been somewhat slower in responding to modern science than other branches of industry because of the isolation of the farmer.
Scholarships to train 20 Chinese for 3 yrs in US as agr engineers and send 4 US agr engineers to China noted
Those afflicted with the idea that farmers are suffering from banking discrimination are looking for additional facts on which to base charges. If they will read the daily news, they will find facts of a sort they need but may not like.
It is difficult for the moderns to understand from what ridiculed beginnings the Department of Agriculture grew into its present uncontested multifarious usefulness and high reputation.
According to Russian advices to the Paris Temps, the acreage under agricultural products in Poland, which in 1913 amounted to 12,000,000 hectares or about 29,000,000 acres, had been reduced in 1919 by 3,500,000 hectares, or about 30 per cent. Since 1919, however, the 3,500,000 hectares lying fallow had been reduced to 1,213,000 in the Spring of 1921, and to 600,000 in the present season.
bill to exempt new collectives from taxes for 2 yrs and impose high taxes on kulaks passed, Natl Assembly
US Mil Govt opens Bavarian land reform drive; repts 4,500 hectares redistributed; charges Gers lax in applying Apr, 47, order; violations cited; Ger procedure described
A new volume in The Citizens' Library of Economics, Politics, and Sociology, which is appearing with the imprint of the Macmillan Company, is "An Introduction to the Study of Agricultural Economics," by Prof. Henry C. Taylor of the University of Wisconsin, an expert in the office of Experiment Stations, United States Department of Agriculture.
Washington dispatches say that a proposal will be made to appropriate $3,000,000 at the approaching session for an agricultural census. That may be as good a method of starting an expense account as any other, and it is always well to start moderately. Why there is any particular need for an agricultural census, or what would be done with it, is not stated in the forecasts.
Under this title E.P. Dutton  Co. will bring out here a new book by Edwin A. Pratt, author of "American Railways,"  The volume treats of railways and their relation to agriculture, and the agricultural organization in Denmark, Germany, France, Great Britain, Siberia, the United States, Canada, Italy, Holland, Austria, Poland, Australasia, and other countries.
Farm acreage in New York State fell off in every county during the ten-year period after 1920, according to last year's Federal census.
WHAT the American farmer can espect during 1929 will be forecast by W.M. Jardine,  Secretary of Agriculture, and the chairman of the eight Federal agriculture committees in a broadcast over WJZ's system tomorrow afternoon.
There has developed a curious opposition to the appropriation of money for the agricultural work of the Government. We think that most of it is unreasonable. Doubtless there is room for improvement in the work. It is easy to find fault with any work of this sort which is not under the direct influence of private interest and guided by practical business principles.
COLUMBIA, S.C., May 18.--Endorsement of the agricultural bloc in Congress was voted by the biennial State Democratic Convention, which adjourned early today. Enactment by Congress of a system of short-term credits for farmers also was advocated. Woodrow Wilson and James M. Cox were voted praise as party leaders.
LABOR: Agr Dept repts 6% employment rise, Feb, '46 to Feb, '47; notes number of foreign workers
Editorial on Census Bur rept showing NYS has 12,070 fewer farms now than 10 yrs ago; cites increased value of farm lands
Editorial lauds Gov C E Hughes veto of several bills to establish chain of agr schools in NYS
Sen Butler sees price collapse from 1-crop test; subcom; H Schenck scores plan; Anderson and Sen Thye comment; Repr Keating scores plan, House
The Agricultural Department of the United States is accused of 0veradvertising. It is intimated that, if the claims of its scientists were frequently compared with their results, the department would have cause to feel ashamed of its work. The lady-bird, imported to combat the San Jose scale, is declared by The Boston Transcript not to have lived up to its contract.
A pamphlet was issued by the Director of the Central Experimental Farm at Ottawa not long ago, on the agricultural possibilities of the Yukon district. One of our newspapers, in a review of it, said that the Director had issued a pamphlet on the agricultural possibilities of the Yukon, the most characteristic feature of which was that the Yukon district seemed to have no agricultural possibilities at all.
lr by "L. W. B." comparing prohibition amendment to Marco Polo's account of tails of Tartary sheep
MR. TAY PAY GORMAN of Chicago, Ottawa, Agua Caliente and way stations was herding his Chicago Black Hawks toward Madison Square Garden for their hockey date with the Rangers, but he paused to deliver an oration on an agricultural problem.
Agriculture, in the opinion of many, is considered to be a form of industry more laborious and less attractive to natural man than hunting or herding, and that it is consequently only undertaken under constraint, this being generally due to pressure of population on available means of subsistence. We cannot accept this conclusion in its entirety, as place must always condition work.
The Georgetown (British Guiana) correspondent of Reater's News Agency writes under date of July 10: Sir Daniel Morris, West Indian Imperial Commissioner of Agriculture, in his official report on his recent visit to British Guiana highly commends the work of the recently established Board of Agriculture and refers in glowing terms to the progressive spirit shown by the colonists.
Even though costly, the complete survey proposed by Governor ROOSEVELT'S Agricultural Advisory Committee of the State's agricultural possibilities deserves careful study. Speaking before the Wyoming Valley Pioneers' Association, the Governor ...
In Germany the productive area is equal to no more than eight acres per farming hand; in the Western States it is sixty-two acres. The value of product per acre is, of course, higher in Germany, namely $31, as compared with $10 in the Western States; but the product per farming hand is $620 in the latter, against $250 in Germany.
It has always been supposed that the dread and hatred of the trust lodged in the bucolic breast were more relentless and savage than could elsewhere be found. It was to this feeling that the famous Sherman Anti-Trust act was directed after some plain warnings as to the effect on the Republican vote should the feeling be disregarded.
N A Rockefeller and 4 bros set up Internatl Basic Econ Corp to improve conditions; 6 subsidiaries to operate in southern areas; program described
WASHINGTON, Aug. 16. -- The Association of Agricultural Colleges and Experiment Stations ended its meeting last evening with a banquet at the Shoreham in honor of Prof. Warrington of Rothamsted, England. Assistant Secretary of Agriculture Willets presided.
Repr Auchincloss repts big loss, NJ; H B Glaser repts 50% losses in area supplying NYC
The old simple life is doomed. Prices and wages fall in the country as they rise in the centres of industrialism. Germany grows richer, but German agriculturists grow poorer; ., vealtVn accumulates and men decay." The country, from a variety of causes, will probably take longer in the killing than it has done with us.
At the Casa Camadra are two old log houses, and in them live some squalid, yellow-hided humans who are to farm a little stretch of bottom land this year. They require work steers to do their plowing, and Mr. Bell has brought up half a dozen vicious old "stags," which are both truculent and swift of foot.
Russians being among the chief competitors of American farmers, there is practical interest in the proposal to divide the ownership of Russian land among its cultivators. Will this increase or decrease the amount of wheat, for instance, exportable to the world's markets?
Min Todorovitch repts 20% of land socialized and 3,000 new co-ops set up; sees free farmers liquidated; charges Comin form incites rich peasants to resistance; bill to punish sabotage on co-op and state farms passed, Parliament
WASHINGTON, Nov. 13.--At to-day's session of the Association of American Agricultural Colleges and Experiment Stations, Gen. Morgan, Commissioner of Indian Affairs, made an address in which he urged the colleges to prepare ...
accepts Wallace's resignation; names C R Wickard Sec and P H Appleby Under-Sec; Wallace-Roosevelt correspondence; Wallace message to staff
Chamber of Deputies exonerates Agr Min Arguedas of totalitarianism charge, following int on best govt for Bolivia
This is the season in which the balloon ripens. The balloon appears to be an agricultural product; at least, it is put prominently on exhibition at the agricultural fairs.
YOU might as well understand from the first that I'm not primarily a teacher of agriculture; first and foremost I'm a missionary," declared Sam Higginbottam with the air of getting it over with.
Flood control and agricultural taxation are the two problems which are uppermost in the minds of the members of the Agricultural Commission of the American Bankers' Association, who will meet in Chattanooga, Tenn., the home of Thomas R. Preston, new President of the association, on Dec. 12 and 13.
Urged for farmers for dissemination of new ideas in rept on work of State Agricultural Experiment Station of N J
POSEN, Aug. 17. -- Several members of the Royal Settlements Commission have been ordered to visit the United States to study Western farm management and conditions. The commission is engaged in buying lands owned by Poles and settling Germans on them, so as to increase German influence in the provinces of Prussian Poland.
Astudy of Mr. Ashley's "Englih Economic History," treating of land tenure, gives in greater detail than Mr. Prothero the early system of tillage. It is obvious that before and for some centuries after the Conquest, while people were few, land was abundant.
ST. PAUL, Minn., Aug. 26.--A.F. Nordin, Commissioner of Statistics, furnishes a table showing that in 1886 there were 30,855,031 acres of wheat in Minnesota., showing an increase over 1885 of 39,848 acres. Oats were 1,196,235, against 1,095,085; increase, 100,450. Corn, 620,955, against 580,223; increase, 50,732. Barley, 327,470, against 285,919; increase, 41,551. Flax, 248,588, against 214,873; increase 33,715.
How pleasantly and entertainingly passes along Mr. Rider Haggard's "A Farmer's Year' in Longman's Magazine. You read of corn, of beets, potatoes, of horses, cows, sheep, of rabbits, foxes, of crows, swallows, and then there are absurd comments on landlords, publicans, and farm laborers. You get an insight into English rural politics. Then Mr. Rider Haggard tells you of old churches, parsons, clerks, choirs.
WASHINGTON, July 22 (AP) -- The Office of Price Administration and the Department of Agriculture sought a solution tonight to a "squeeze" between prices of livestock and meat products which appeared to be creating a shortage of pork and beef in Eastern centers.
A drastic decline in exports complicates the Administration's efforts to solve agriculture's most pressing problem-the existence of price-depressing cotton surpluses, farm officials said today.
MARLBOROUGH, Mass., Oct. 22.--Arthur A. Brigham of Marlborough, past Representative to the Legislature, and Master of the State Grange, has accepted a position as Professor of Agriculture in an agricultural college in Japan.
FINAL information with regard to most of the farm crops of 1907, made public within the past few days, now permits a fairly sound opinion concerning the farmer's contribution to the National production of wealth and his income for the year.
Cuyler Ten Eyck, a brother of former State Agriculture Commissioner Peter G. Ten Eyck, died today at his home here after a year's illness. He was 72 years old.
Despite a general readjustment of rentals occupiers have suffered hardly less than owners from the continuous fall in profits and the accompanying depreciation in the value of farm stock and diminution of agricultural profits. In the eastern and in some of the southern counties of England the position of tenant farmers must, with few exceptions, be described as a critical one.
The National Agricultural Convention will open at the Grand Central Hotel Wednesday, Feb. 6, and continue for two days. People interested in agriculture and kindred pursuits ...
ALBANY, Dec. 28.--The State Agricultural Society will hold its annual meeting in this city on Jan. 16.
If the First Auditor of the Treasury had not refused to pass the vouchers covering the payment of $22,000 for sugar beet seed, but had found no fault with the remarkable accounts of the Agricultural ...
WASHINGTON, Feb. 13.--The following is the text of the bill adopted by the House Committee on Agriculture to-day and subsequently introduced in the House:
The Government's policy on the food front is to expand production vastly in 1944, while rolling back prices to the consumer. Farm machinery is to be made available on a larger scale. Adequate seeds and fertilizer are promised. Incentive payments and subsidies are promised.
Mr. LE DUC is out of the Department of Agriculture and Mr. GEORGE B. LORING is in. This may be considered a gain to the department. Mr. LE DUC is a theorist. Amiable, honest, and patriotic the ex-Commissioner undoubtedly is. But, instead of addressing himself to the supply of the real...
Agr Dept and Writing Paper Mfrs Assn split raw materials cost in experiment with low-grade cotton use in paper mfr
Once more is heard, on the eve of the inauguration of a new national Administration, the perennial demand that the Department of Agriculture shall be represented in the Cabinet by a full-fledged Minister.
Royal decree on Natl Front provides for agr, labor and professional groups; apptmts to be made by King; Roman salute will be compulsory
DEAR Uncle Sam," wrote a girl from New York State recently, addressing the United States Government at Washington, "I have read in the Georgia paper my grandma sent me how you teach the girls down South to make some money on their tomatoes, and the boys how to raise corn.
WASHINGTON, Oct. 20.--At the Agricultural Convention this morning papers were read on "The Work and the Needs of Experiment Stations" and "Experiments and Investigations Demanded by the Farmers of Iowa."
Col. D. WYATT AIKEN, Representative in Congress from the Third District of South Carolina, is a living illustration of the truth of the old saying that politics is a trade in the south. There are, in other portions of the Republic, men who make a trade--that is to say, a regular business--of politics.
WASHINGTON, Sept. 24 (U.P.) -- The Department of Agriculture said today that the danger of a depression is much less now than after World War I but that it would be "rash" to dismiss the possibility completely.
The American Association for the Advancement of Science presented some of its top awards at its annual meeting at the Statler Hotel yesterday.
Drs E U Condon and H Mark to be US reprs at Science Cong, Bombay; Dr A H Compton to attend
The country needs 10,000,000 amateur scientists, Dr. Edmund W. Sinnott, retiring president of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, declared last night.
Organized labor's power bloc, called the most dominant one in the United States economy, is threatening the freedom of both the unions and private businesses, a joint session of four social science professional societies was told last night at the Commodore Hotel.
The Kinsey report, "Sexual Behavior in the Human Male," was both praised and denounced last night by speakers at a symposium session of the American Association for the Advancement of Science at the Statler Hotel.
Scientists are not immune to error, visitors to the annual meeting of the American Assocation for the Advancement of Science at the Statler Hotel discovered yesterday. That conclusion was reached when scotch tape was found wound around an exhibit box on the eighteenth floor, where snakes, alligators, turtles and lizards are on view.
Prof Sears paper on effect of permissiveness and control on aggression discussed, Amer Science Advancement Assn
Dr I C Diller repts tests show fungi in all growths; sees link between cancer type and fungus species
sees defense planning based on land fighting and counteroffensive; cites Marxist-Stalinist concept as basis; warns against underestimating power
NY Times survey shows applied sciences get bulk of $125 million granted to colls by Fed Govt and indus for research in all fields, '49-50; tables; stress on applied science feared by some educators
Dr V Bush holds USSR threatens US less than US trend to 'soft security'; s, MIT; warns US position will be undermined if trend prevails
S on research and on US trend toward loss of freedoms, Indus Realtors Soc dinner; gets award
Vishinsky says USSR will permit periodic internatl inspection, but opposes internatl ownership and operation of facilities and allocation of nuclear fuels, s, com
NY Sciences Acad biology sec conf on means of reviving germs inhibited by antiseptics to aid disease process study; Dr H L Davis outlines problem
Dr L Carmichael and assocs find no continuous increase during difficult task; link boredom; rept alertness drop 1st sign; alertness indicator described
Baldwin on Navy concept of seapower and unified command; role seen similar to that in last war; cartoons
lr on recent Weimar prizes; notes E Ger scientists desire for ties with W Ger scientists
The keynote of the recent sessions held on opposite sides of the Atlantic by the United Nations Scientific Conference on the Conservation and Utilization of Resources and by the British Association for the Advancement of Science was material needs -- food, minerals, sources of energy, people.
NEWCASTLE, England, Sept. 7 -- The meeting of the British Association for the Advancement of Science, that closed here today has proved to be one of the most successful in the 180 years of the association's history. As the president, Sir John Russell, said, any Briton who was feeling pessimistic about the vitality of the future of the country ought to be reassured by the performance of the scientists.
Drs W J Eckert, D Brouwer and G Clemence describe operation of IBM calculator that traces orbits 100 yrs ahead to aid navigation and science study
Americanists Internatl Cong opposes curbs based on ideology or race; rejects Dr M Swadesh proposal for pub hearings on dismissals motivated by possible bias
science city planned around Weizmann Inst, Rehovoth; to be dedicated Nov 2; plans; M W Weisgal comment
Prof L Newton on seaweed as human and animal food and for indus uses; warns on large-scale harvesting
Jackson Memorial Lab, Bar Harbor, Me, plans summer school for talented hs students; Dr C C Little comments
Conf on elec computers, Los Angeles; USAF orders machines for mobilization problems; Dr H Huskey on use for electron and human affairs research
THIS book is being published both in England and in this  country. The author is lecturer in zoology at Oxford University and is also the founder and the energetic secretary of the British...
IT has always been hard to believe that the future has more in store for us than we have known in thepast. The past is known, the future is dim.
Comment on Lt Comdr Smith's studies of rise and fall of Atlantic and on Dr F P Shephard's of submarine canyons
The last frontier melted away in the Nineties, but the frontier of science remains a vague intellectual region that recedes ever farther and ever widens as physicists, chemists and biologists make new discoveries. Even while we were in the national defense stage bills had been introduced that called for the creation of a government-supported foundation to carry on research on a scale that no single industry could match.
NOBODY has to be told that this is a totalitarian war, a war that is fought in the factory and the laboratory as well as upon the high seas and upon land, a war that enlists every scientist, every working pair of hands. Ever since Napoleon's time war has become more and more totalitarian.
COURSES AND TEACHING: ed on Dr J B Conant humanistic science lectures, Yale, and projected course, Harvard
Last year the President vetoed a National Science Foundation bill because it would have set up a Governmentsupported, autonomous research organization responsible to no one but itself. Heeding his objection, Senator Smith of New Jersey introduced in this Congress a new bill which, though not all that it should be, was approved by the Senate on May 5.
The annual reports of the Rockefeller Foundation have always been more than reviews of what it has accomplished through its grants-in-aid. Under the presidency of George E. Vincent and Raymond Fosdick, who retired only recently, the reports have summarized the state of science and indulged in much philosophical and sociological rumination.
By a vote of 79 to 8 the Senate has prepared the way for a favorable consideration of the National Science Foundation bill by the House. As it now stands, the measure provides that the director of the Foundation shall be appointed by the President with the approval of the Senate.
Great Britain's economic future depends on an increase in her exports, this increase in turn on her industrial development, and her industrial development on scientific and engineering research. Here science and politics interlock. Parliament therefore created a Parliamentary and Scientific Committee which gives it advice and which consists of some two hundred peers and M.P.'s and the representatives of about eighty scientific bodies.
There is a growing conviction in laboratories that though this civilization has been molded by the scientist and the engineer, research is encouraged ...
It is usually assumed that modern science, which produced long-range artillery and the bursting bomb, flamethrowers and poison gas, tanks and, above all, the airplane, has made war more horrible than it was in the past. In a sense it has. There is no doubt that the impact of mechanized warfare on the individual soldier's psychology is far more terrifying and requires greater moral and physical stamina to withstand than ever before.
In an interview which he gave on his arrival from Europe Dr. ROBERT A. MILLIKAN voiced the opinion that democracy's hope lies in the extension of the scientific approach to government.
It was fitting enough that the more brilliant lights on the opening night of the Fair should have been turned on by the cosmic rays and that Dr. Albert Einstein should have discussed the rays and their significance for the benefit not only of the thousands who watched the display but of the millions who sat at their loudspeakers. For this Fair is necessarily a recapitulation ...
AT the third annual Conference on the Scientific Spirit  and Democratic Faith held in May, 1945, papers were read which grappled with the problem of making what Dewey calls "the scientific habit of mind" an integral part of the democratic process. Hence the participation .....
Now that the German Government has withdrawn from the World's Fair, what disposition is to be made of the space allotted to its building? "The World of Tomorrow" is the general to theme of the fair. That world is being fashioned even now in the scientific laboratories.
Ed on correspondence between Science (pub) ed Dr J M Cattell and postal censor on deletion of items involving mil medicine
The sociologists must have been somewhat disappointed in the symposium on "Science and Society" arranged by the American Association for the Advancement of Science. Long ago they told us that it is not the fault of science that its discoveries have made it possible to produce more goods than we can consume, and that high explosives and deadly gases were devised for use in peace rather than in war.
It is generally agreed that the work done for the Office of Scientific Research and Development during the war should be continued in the interest not only of national security but of national well-being. Hence the bills which would create a National Science Foundation.
Not so long ago Dr. Karl T. Compton appeared before the Senate Committee on Military Affairs and drew a picture of what would have happened if some military agency of the Government had decided earlier in the century that the automotive engine had military potentialities and therefore refused to permit the publication of studies on high-octane fuels, metallurgy and thermodynamics.
To encourage potential Pasteurs, the local Board of Education, at a cost of nearly $200,000, is planning to remodel and modernize the Bronx High School of Science. More laboratory and research facilities will be provided for young scientists.
A few weeks ago we commented on that section of the Rockefeller Foundation's last annual report in which the erection of international barriers to the pursuit of science by the totalitariancountries was deplored. Now comes a communication in Science from Dr. Otto Struve, director of Yerkes Observatory, in which he expresses his concern at- a disintegrating trend in astronomy so far as international cooperation is concerned.
While the world was plunged in an economic Slough of Despond, science swept on to new victories in 1932. If we need any proof that the spirit of our time is not crushed, we have but to enter the laboratories. Gloom In the factories and gloom hi the market places, but here rejoicing that the year has been one of deeper understanding, richer accomplishment.
In an extraordinary communication to the British scientific weekly, Nature, Professor J. Stark, Nobel laureate and one of the most distinguished living German physicists, asserts that "the predisposition toward pragmatic thinking occurs most frequently in men of the Nordic race" and that the Nordics, to whom we owe our scientific progress, have been held back by non-Aryan dogmatism.
Dr G Failla awarded Janeway Medal by Amer Radium Soc for treatment discovery; urges planned research
THE underlying temper of this formidable treatise on "The  Bases of Religion in a Corrected Science" may best be indicated by a few quotations. On page 969 (second volume):
Dr E U Condon sees faint chance uranium energy may be used practically; Wilson cloud-chamber for studies illus
Like the nurse who tells the child of Rawhead and Bloody-bones to keep it in awe, some near-scientists have talked of science wrecking the physical world by releasing the power now in the atoms and exterminating the flower of the human...
Those who listened to Professor BURGESS's address on the occasion of the fiftieth anniversary of the Faculty of Political Science of Columbia University must have been thrilled by his story how the idea of it first came to him. It was on the night of Jan. 2, 1863, in the midst of the fighting around Murfreesboro, ...
The cabled report of Professor EDDINGTON'S address in London excited such interest that it is published in full in today TIMES. The question which he discusses is the supreme question of human existence. No one is heard more eagerly by inquiring minds ...
Drs D P LeGalley and J W E Harrison rept tests show vitamins improve color vision in color blind
Science is afraid of itself. In "Erewhon " SAMUEL BUTLER pictures man enslaved by his own processes and machines. GEORGE MOORE cries in the " Confessions of a Young Man": "The world ...
Although the dinner in honor of EINSTEIN on the eve of his departure for Europe was made the occasion for reviewing the state of the world, it was inevitable that the pass in which science now finds itself should have received attention. Professor SHAPLEY remarked in passing: "Even at this close range we can see the mortality of practically all current theories, both of the microcosmos and the macrocosmos.
Lr from A C Bohn on request of, Education Com for revised courses in science and philosophy
In analysis of water, discovers fluorine as cause of mottled teeth in children; comment by W Kaempffert
A Einstein, in feature article, says it is cosmic religious sense which grants scientists power to remain loyal to their purpose in spite of countless failures; illus
The London Times in its summary of a recent meeting of the British Association for the Advancement of Science said as politely as possible, and yet with a suggestion of weariness, that not a few of the speakers at the meeting "had only rudimentary ideas on public speaking."
Ed on cooperation of Amer Chem Soc and industrial concerns in gathering and disseminating news of science
When is a man intoxicated? How much alcohol does it take to make him drunk? Congress must weigh these questions if the Volstead act is to be amended to permit the sale of stronger beer. Already the battle of the experts has begun.
At the dinner of the British Science Guild Lord SUMNER, who has been a Judge of the High Court of Justice and a Lord Justice of Appeal and is now a Lord of Appeal in Ordinary, spoke to the toast of "Science and the Empire." His scientific attainments have escaped general knowledge, but he is a "Balliol man" and therefore capable of everything.
It was said by the great French Chemist BERTHELOT that "chemistry creates its object." It is pre-eminently the creative science, he contended, because, while it penetrates as profoundly as any other science, even to the natural elements, it is not condemned ...
Case For and Against Psychical Belief; ed on F C S Schiller's review in The 19th Century
C E Keeler and R D Cook refute K Dunlap's claim that little is known about human heredity and that drs fail to apply knowledge
In 1851 the age of the crust of the earth was generally estimated in thousands of years. Science has now determined that it is to be counted in thousands of millions of years. Our universe then stretched off into infinity; it is now found to have finite limits and a diameter of 166 quadrillions of miles.
Vitamin B complex: Amer Med Assn Journal warns against Dr S Ansbacher's gray hair restoration method
Before the rise of Stalin, Mussolini and Hitler, Sir Richard Gregory's lecture on the "Cultural Aspects of Science," delivered last week at the Carnegie Institution of Washington, would have been regarded as an interesting, scholarly historical sketch with no obvious relation to life.
THREE volumes of "The Outline of Science" have now appeared. The fourth and last volnme will be ready in a few months. A review of  the first volume, together with a discussion of the general plan of the work, has already been printed in these columns.
In speaking of the significance of radium as a source of industrial energy, on the occasion of presenting a gram of  it to Mme. CIRIE, Professor MILLIKAN made a bold declaration of the value of moral and spiritual perceptions.
WASHINGTON, Aug. 27 -- Following is the text of President Truman's statement on the first report from his Scientific Research Board: The chairman of the President's Scientific Research Board, whom directed last October to study the scientific research and development of this country, has made his first report to me.
Anton R. Zhebrak has been dismissed from his scientific post in Russia for having suggested in the journal Science, over two years ago, that Soviet biologists have no high opinion of Academician T. D. Lysenko, a plant breeder who has been proclaiming since 1935 that genetics is a bourgeois fraud invented to perpetuate ancestor worship and aristocratic snobbery.
Figures of reasonable magnitude have ever had a charm, but I am writing this to your excellent and sane publication to ask if something cannot be done for the suppression, or at least for the regulation, of the phalanxes of naughts which come marshaled behind an integer in the declarations of so many scientists, if they are correctly reported?
THAT there is need of an annual popular review of sci  ence no one will deny. Nor will any one who is familiar with the abilities of Dr. Taylor deny that he is the right man to prepare such a review.
It was a happy inspiration to make Lincoln's birthday the occasion of rallying some 1,000 scientists in twentysix cities to the defense of freedom of research. There have been some protests in Europe against the suppression of free scientific thinking, but nothing like this mass demonstration.
Ed, Science and Ethnology, on article by Prof V Kellogg in The New Republic on the Nordic Race
Hard upon his re-election as president of the British Science Guild Sir SAMUEL HOARE, formerly Air Minister, delivered an address in which he pictured the part that science may play in the next war. " If there is anything more certain than
ACCORDING to C.G. Abbott, the Assistant Secretary, the Smithsonian Institution conducted two observatories on the desert mountains of Arizona and Chile, respectively, where it observed the variations of the sun's heat. The result of these observations, which will be continued for several years, may furnish a basis for long-range weather forecasting.
THESE two authors, in several previous books of similar character that dealt with adventure and commerce instead of science have already shown that they can be capable and interesting.
Shortly before this unmannerly storm hurtled in upon us from the Atlantic, Forecaster SCARR, pinnacled among the stars above the Whitehall Building, declared that "scientifically "there is no east wind in these lati"tudes."
Ed on course in general science for first yr high school adopted by N Y S Dept of Education
When argon was detected in the air no one suspected that it would be used in electric lamps. The wildest fantasy in which FARADAY might have indulged would have fallen far short of what has actually been accomplished by applying his discovery of induction.
"On behalf of the people of the United States," President Truman announced last night to the Fourth International Cancer Research Congress that progress in the production of radioisotopes by the United States Atomic Energy Commission now permits limited distribution to qualified research workers in other countries of radioisotopes, principally for medical and biological research.
lr from C E Heitman comments on reference made in Dr J J Walsh's book, Famous Cures That Failed
200th birth anniv: scientific works exhibit sponsored by Med Acad and R Virchov Med Soc, NYC
In the series of "Cambridge Manuals Of Science and Literature," (imported by G. P. Putnam's Sons, 40 cents each,) new issues are "Prehistoric Man," by W. L. H. Duckworth, university lecturer in physical anthropology at Cambridge; "The Natural History of Clay," by Alfred B. Searle, cantor lecturer on brickmaking; "The Modern Locomotive," by C. Edgar Allen; "Earthworms and Their Allies," by Frank E. Beddard; "The .Migration of Birds," by T. A. Coward.
Workmen are speeding up operations to have all the permanent exhibits ready for the formal opening tomorrow of the New York Hall of Science at 1506 Broadway. A portion of the premises was opened on Oct. 20 for the Lithuanian art-in-exile display, which will continue with more than 600 items of paintings, sculpture, ceramics and wood carvings.
More than two years ago a committee of physicians, engineers, industrial leaders and safety experts concluded a long report on the health of rock drillers, blasters and excavators in this city with three strong recommendations: remedial measures were needed to protect the ...
Doubtless Professor EINSTEIN would say that in his Yale News questionnaire he had given only milk for babes, but some of his answers are strong meat.
THE "story of science" may be written in either of two broadly contrasted ways: philosoph  lcaliy, as a record of the gradual development of a definite point of view toward the world and reality; or pragmatically, where the emphasis is placed on the actual facts, ...
New York Times Saturday Review of Books: It is curious that a man who writes a book " to provide a practical method for literary criticism and analysis" cannot do so small a thing as to apply that method. My review of "The Science of Poetry and the Philosophy of Language" gave the author an attractive opportunity for demonstration.
REMBRANDT painted perhaps seven or eight hundred canvases. "Of these, ten thousand are in America," Dr. BODE once remarked.
To drop Fed Science Progress (pub) because of adverse criticism; dept pub, Facts for Indus, current issue lists H Wallace as dept Sec
NYU, Amer Inst of N Y C and N Y C schools to offer course in laboratory technique for science club sponsors
THAT Rio de Janeiro may have a new suburb, 7,000,000 cubic yards of dirt are to be catapulted into the sea. Modern science has  once more stepped forward and, with a gesture, made land where there was open sea; sliced off a rock-ribbed,...
Mr. RAYMOND FOSDICK, once Commissioner of Accounts for New York City, has in a commencement address at Wellesley College cast up the accounts of civilization.
Comment on Prof N Wiener theory of mechanistic equivalents of human behavior based on comparison of elec circuits in nervous system and calculating machines
Natl Inst of Indus Psychology favors yellow board and blue chalk over blackboards and white chalk
There are some interesting facts connected with the inquiry into Major Whyte's death that may interest the Christian Science Publication Committee and others.
Dr Bush repts com apptd to study mobilizing scientists in emergency; members at 1st conf noted
Dr S G Lutz and S J Tetenbaum develop device to make lines of force visible; illus
THIS is a practical book whose aim is to search into the rea  sons for the every-day conduct and belief of the ordinary person and to find therein, and in the accepted truths of...
Heparin discussed as anti-coagulant; Drs M Morrison and A A Samwick suggest bone marrow injections to cure blood ills
HAVE you been mixing up Ouija with Floating Ladies? Or horoscopes with the kind of magic that brings forth  rabbits out of a hat? If you have, you have been hurting the professional feelings of Messrs. Houdini and Kellar, Thurston and Gary.
JUST as soon as I get my time at the office reduced from eight to six hours a day," said the top-floor girl, "I intend to devote the two hours thus gained to the formation of a Scientific Gossiping Club. I cannot think of any kind of a club that this community stands so much in need of.
A G Ashcroft and W von Bergen get 1st Amer Testing Materials Soc award for outstanding scientific contributions to indus
WOODS HOLE, Mass. -- To the thousands of visitors who pass through this little village at the southwestern tip of Cape Cod en route to Nantucket or Martha's Vineyard, Woods Hole is little more than a jumping-off place.
" The Old Riddle and the Newest Answer," by John Gerard, S.J., F.L.S., is an inquiry as to how far modern science has altered the aspect of the problem of the universe. The book is about to be brought out by Longmans, Green  Co. The author indicates the object of the inquiry in the first paragraph of his preface:
While a matter of some interest, it is of no general concern whether the equity suit brought by Mrs. EDDY'S son against the mysterious and sinister group of men who have controlled and almost imprisoned her for years results in a continuance of their power and profits, or whether it leads to a transfer to other hands of her accumulated wealth -- what New Englanders of her class so reverently call "the propputty."
MORE sugar will be available for everybody through the discovery of a process of keeping it from  being injured by molds and bacteria. Fully 1 per cent. of the Cuban crop, or about 70,000,000 pounds of sugar a year and worth at least $1,500,000, it is estimated ...
Some years ago General SMUTS appeared in the guise of a philosopher. He advanced a doctrine which he called "holism" or the "organicity " of animate and inanimate nature.
Sen Pepper urges barriers lowering, including sterling bloc and Brit Empire preferences elimination; urges internatl conf
suit brought by Mrs, Cath Aller to restrain directors of Publishing Soc from refusing to print her card as practitioner is dismissed
Amer Science Advancement Assn repts G Westinghouse Science Writing Award Fund formed; cash award to writer for science repts and citation to paper for science news coverage provided
That is at least a modest homeopath over in Brooklyn who thinks he can be of more service to science dead than alive, and who has pretended to offer his body to be vivisected instead of operating upon the bodies of his fellow-beings. It would be sad if his patients should believe him.
The science of religion, writes J.A. Mac Culloch in his "Religion: Its Origin and Forms," (in the Temple Cyclopaedic Primers. 16 mo. Pp. 185. Cloth, New York: The Macmillan Company,) is a "psychology, a philosophy, a history, and an exposition of facts."
Two movements of public sentiment with reference to the relief of poverty and its accompanying suffering and evils are pretty plain in modern times. One is a decided growth of the tendency toward sympathy with the sufferers; the other is the development of a feeling that relief can and should be given in a manner to prevent injury to those relieved and to the permanent interests of society.
Amer-Soviet Science Soc repts Treas hints Condon probe is reason for its failure to act on soc's tax-exemption plea
"A First Course in Practical Science" is the title of a useful little textbook by J.H. Leonard of the Paradise House School at Stoke Newington (Dutton's House and School Library, 60 cents net.) Dr. J.H. Gladstone says in a preface that the work is intended to give the school child an insight into certain general principles and into the methods of observation and experiment by which scientific knowledge may be gained.
Dr. SIMON NEWCOMB -- he is "Doctor" by the decrees of half a dozen universities in nearly as many countries -- has a sombre article in the current number of The North American Review, on "The Conditions Which Discourage Scientific Work in America." It is written with full knowledge, and, of course, in entire good faith.
ed on Stetson belief warns on danger to welfare of soc of some Christian Science teachings
In the general impulse to creative activity and scientific progress which has resulted from the war the neutral nations have not been exempt, and being free from war's worst burden ...
"Old Man in Doubt"; "J. C.," "A. S. George," "Arthur D. Berry," and B. J. Sturgis's Letters to Editor
War Service Committee of N. T. Christian Science Churches takes over expenditure of fund for carrying on welfare work in cantonments among Christian Scientists
Sir JOSEPH J. THOMPSON, President of the British Association for the Advancement of Science, in his address at the opening of the seventy-ninth annual meeting of that association in Winnipeg, noted a likeness between the effect on science made by the astonishing discoveries of the last few years and that produced in literature by the spirit of the Renaissance. Imagination is stirred anew.
Dr A Ciocco, after study of Wash County, Md, married couples, holds long-lived persons select mates of own type
The Academy of Political Science held its annual business meeting in the Russell Sage Foundation yesterday afternoon and elected four trustees to serve for three years, Adolph Lewisohn, Prof.
BOSTON, Jan. 11.--The resignations of Herbert W. Eustace and Paul Harvey as trustees of the Christian Science Publishing Society were accepted ...
THERE is a kindly man in an  old nursery song who, at the proper time, takes each child gently by the hand to lead  him met into the marvels of an unknown land. The child trusts himself confidingly, only slightly afraid before the unknown, curious and...
WASHINGTON, Aug. 27 -- A program for bold and imaginative expansion of scientific research, entailing annual expenditures of at least 1 per cent of the national income by 1957, was proposed to President Truman today by his Scientific Research Board.
YES," said the young man as he threw himself at the feet of the pretty school teacher, "I love you and would go to the world's end for you."
Last April a team of scientists of the research laboratories of Merck  Co., Inc., Rahway, N.J., announced that they had isolated from large quantities of liver a red crystalline substance with the characteristics of a member of the vitamin B complex, which clinical tests revealed to be the active principle in liver that had saved the lives of victims of pernicious anemia during the past twenty-two years.
Urges extension of science research foundation bills, open lr; scores bills; offers alternate plan, lr to Pres Truman
In the fight against the miserable superstition misnamed "Christian Science," in which all decent people as well as all decent newspapers find themselves enlisted, it is of the greatest utility that as many cases as possible, like the one related by Dr. Frank S. Billings in this morning's TIMES, should be publicly commented on.
From The Contemporary Review. Some years ago the present writer remembers reading a letter relating to the death of a friend who had perished in the wreck of an ocean liner which had gone ashore on the Spanish coast. The writer of the letter, in referring to this friend, rightly, from the Christian point of view, laid stress on the fact that her death was the will of God, and was therefore best for her.
NO one can set down laws for earthquakes. It was just about three years ago that the writer was in Martinique when that island was in a state of constant quiver from seismic disturbances. The late Angelo Heilprin, Professor of Geology at Yale, and one of the most distinguished scientists of the age, had come to Martinique for the purpose of looking into its earthquakes and volcanoes.
AN alert and efficient dispensary service is maintained by the Park Department of New York to care for all trees which may be attacked by illness or accident of any kind. If the patient has met with a bad accident which demands an immediate surgical operation a skiliful tree surgeon is at once rushed 10 the spot.
Japan insists that her position in Manchuria is like our own in Nicaragua. The reference is to the legality and not to the discomfort.
I WAS invited by Yale University to lecture on the treatment of children's diseases. These lectures are held according to the terms of a foundation which provides for the  calling to New York each year of an investigator from outside America.
Sir O. Lodge tells of loss to science by his death in war; counting electrons of atoms told of
2 Princeton Univ lab workers L De Pew and R Mulrine seized for theft of radioactive cube; lie detector and Geiger counter aid experts
The exploring of the upper air, with its relation to meteorology and health, is the underlying principle of all the Eddy efforts. Some of the interesting things he and his kites have done may be briefly set down here. He took the first mid-air photograph in the Western Hemisphere on May 30, 1895, thirty feet above the ground.
What is called the " first perma"nent exhibition of the development "of land and steam transportation, "from their beginnings to the pres"ent day," should go far toward bringing home to New York the educational ...
Famous Illustrator and Student of Plant Life and Animals. HAVE plants intelligence, have they sentience, have they consciousness? These Questions which a comparatively short time ago would have seemed absurd are now seriously asked by eminent botanists. "Has the commonly adopted opinion that plant life is unaccompanied with sensation and knowledge of its own existence ever been proved?" asks Prof. J.E. Taylor.
IT is fortunate that Professor Courtney Langdon of Brown University succeeded in completing his translation of the  "Paradiso" and furnishing it with an exceptionally fine comment in the anniversary year of the sixth century of Dante's death at Ravenna.
Supt Bell demands clarification of Open Market Com current support policy; sees Fed Reserve officials and bankers divided on issue
fiscal '51 budget to be 'character classification budget'; structural orgn outlined; difference between this and capital budget discussed; condensed 'budget for layman' to be printed
Premier Georges Bidault of France, who staggered successfully through two more votes of confidence yesterday, must feel a little like Christian in "The Pilgrim's Progress." During the forty-day budget debate in the National Assembly he has gone through the Valley of the Shadow of Death, the Slough of Despond and other obstacles, but ahead of him lie many more "Snares, Pits, Traps and Gins."
Budget Dir Patterson asks for fiscal '51 requests, lr to dept heads; urges only essential items; speculation on budget size and ability to balance
NYS Controller Moore rept on debt, '49, as compared with other NYS cities; their total is 10% of NYC total
E H Collins on '51 budget as a performance budget, implementing Hoover Comm recommendations; recent innovations in budget-making policy revd
Equitable Life Assurance Soc pres T I Parkinson attacks Cong plans for retroactive income tax on life cos for '47-48; says cos had no taxable income because of low yield on investments; plans appeal to indus to oppose tax
PARIS, Dec. 22 -- In an effort to end the French political conflict, Premier Georges Bidault interrupted debate on the 1950 budget tonight and demanded a vote of confidence in accordance with the constitution. The National Assembly then decided that a vote would be taken tomorrow night at one minute after midnight.
G A Price backs incentive plan offered by 2 Pittsburgh accountants; plan would exempt 20 million small wage-earners; Price proposes relief for corps
J J Higgins, State dept bur chief, gets award for developing uniform acctg program for fire and casualty cos
Min Petsche repts budget to Assembly; puts deficit at 60 billion to 90 billion francs; com refuses to re-examine unbalanced budget; Bidault urges speed
" I do not intend to ask for any tax increase." When this declaration of policy is accompanied in these times by a determination to live within income, on a balanced budget, we find it so rare, on any level of government, as to be an almost startling departure. Governor Dewey is responsible for this bit of year-end cheer.
Dewey says fiscal '51 budget will be balanced; dept appropriations to be cut $2 million to counteract other rises; Dewey to recommend lower appropriations for capital outlays; mandatory rises listed
LIRR trustees action on suit for lower assessments awaited, Bklyn and Queens; co must seek hearing
The expiration of the stand-by offering of 142,132 shares of new preferred stock of the Public Service Company of Indiana marks the end of an unusual public utility financing transaction. Award of the underwriting contract at public bidding was made by the company with the first purpose of offering a security to its stockholders which would yield 4 per cent.
NYS Supt Dineen says offering private ins at lowest possible cost is best weapon against compulsory med service
L E Leverone repts on Natl Aeronautics Assn survey of aviation groups policies; deplores div on needs and failure to act on natl policy; E E Wilson stresses need for policy
Pres Truman silent on fiscal '51 tax policy; Dem Natl Chmn W M Boyle comments, Key West
meets; P Ramadier opposes withdrawal from coalition; D Mayer agrees conditionally; Bidault warns Mins against new crisis
World War I debt payment made to US; money to be returned under US Aug legis
US State Dept discloses unofficial visit of banker H J Abs to talk to US com holding Ger debt credits dating from '31, reply to Sen Gillette charge of secret visit
PSC hires W Wyer to probe LIRR problems; outlines scope; Penna RR and Nassau Transit Comm reaction
Ex-President Herbert Hoover, in his broadcast address last night in Washington, described the movement to modernize the Federal Government as "a crusade to clear the track for competency." It may be that the word competency will not stir men's souls like such words as freedom, but there is a connection between competency in government and freedom for the people who are being governed.
Sup Ct upholds right of cos to sue US for recovery of funds paid to persons injured through negligence of Govt employes, cases involving 4 cos
H C Hoover stresses need for Govt reform to prevent higher taxes; notes economists stand that taxation beyond 25% of natl income would bring disaster; sees danger point passed
Women's City Club urges Mayor O'Dwyer act to amend NYS Const to permit city to borrow $1/2 billion above debt limit for 2d Av subway
KEY WEST, Fla., Dec. 11 -- A conference possibly involving critical decisions on 1950 fiscal policy -- the mounting deficit, the new taxes that will be demanded, and national income -- was held here this afternoon by President Truman, John W. Snyder, Secretary of the Treasury, and Frank Pace Jr., Budget Director.
Sen O'Mahoney plans conf of ins co heads and small business men to study chances of increasing co loans to small businesses
Fed Ct, Bklyn, reserves decision on LIRR plea to enjoin county officials proposed sale of tax liens on rr property
Budget Dir Pace tells Pres Truman fiscal '51 budget cannot be balanced without tax rise, Key West
FPC hears Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line and S Jersey Gas cos pleas to expand natural gas service in NY-NJ-Phila area; coal and rr interests protest
L A Lincoln says Met Life Ins Co would take 90% of small business loans if banks would take remaining 10% and service loan
NAM dirs urge end of double taxation on corps; back continuation of tax ct as independent Govt agency
Mutual Ins Agents Assn seeks clarification on whether members are covered by new Fed Minimum Wage Law
Fed Reserve Bd gov J K Vardaman backs tax rise during next Cong session if it is needed to cover expenses
A Ihlefeld seeks stock market as mutual savings banks chief competitor, '50-60; backs 2% interest rate on deposits; H S Kingman comment
Sen O'Mahoney repts savings are going into pub and business loans, not business ownership; analyzes trend
City Council plan to raise wage tax and extend it to all income in effort to balance '50 budget opposed by business and labor; 10c rise per $100 valuation in realty tax and new 1-mill levy on business and professions receipts as of Jan 1 noted
M S Eccles urges redefinition of powers; sees conflict with Treas Dept; Sec Snyder comments, subcom
C Pfanensmith, acquitted of wife's murder on grounds of insanity at time, to get her ins, Newark, NJ
NAM and Amer Farm Bur Fed demand Cong free System from Treas domination, Joint Cong Econ Rept subcom
Mayor Morrison backs to set gen policy of payments to cities in lieu of taxes on Fed-owned property within munic boundaries; says Fed tax-exempt properties cost cities $200 million yr
Treas offers 4 1/4-yr, 1 3/8% notes m exch for $4.894 billion in ctfs and bonds due Dec 15; offers 1-yr, 1 1/8% ctfs in exch for $5.694 billion in ctfs due Jan 1
Acacia Mutual Life Ins Co pres W Montgomery says curb may be necessary on size of cos to prevent investment concentration; Home Life Ins Co pres J A Fulton says limit is unnecessary, House subcom
Estimate Bd approves '50 budget of $335,647,497, raising City Planning Comm proposal by $95 million as result of recent NYS Const amendments
The market for Government securities is pondering a current change of pace in the open-market operations of the Federal Reserve System. On top of last week's sale of $19,000,000 of long-term Treasury bonds from the Federal Reserve's portfolio came a mark-up yesterday in the yield on Treasury bills to 1.12 per cent, compared with a 1.08 per cent yield rate prevailing recently.
Fed-state-local officials conf on intergovt taxes; Budget Bur maps legis for US payment of $250 million in fiscal '51 to cities in lieu of taxation of Fed installations, normally off local tax rolls
A L Kirkpatrick says govts tendency to go into ins business is serious problem for private cos; says extreme nationalistic policies make it difficult for Amer cos to operate in Latin Amer countries
Commerce & Indus Assn rept on dangers of borrowing outside 10% debt limit; actual current borrowing exceeds 20% of assessed valuation; projected amendments seen raising borrowing to 28%-30%
CED chmn J C Thompson says com finds tax system poor; Cong subcom; to offer new plan; stabilizing budget policy to contain new rates
Sen Byrd urges reduced Fed spending to allow tax cuts, article in Pol and Science Acad pub
NYS demands 1st priority lien on LIRR property to collect $14-million debt from grade crossing elimination work; trustees atty repts over 100 claims filed
Joint Cong Econ Rept Com subcom hearings on monetary policy opens; Sec Snyder defends his policy
county counsel O G Judd seeks Bklyn Dist Ct order to trustees to pub certain data
Sec Snyder and Budget Dir Pace question feasibility of automatic guides for tax policies proposed by CED and other groups in statements to Joint Cong subcom
Nassau Transit Comm rept on J G White co study of LIRR, '48; rept shows Penna RR withheld LI funds
A G Lanston & Co issues market study; sees Treas '50 refunding policies crucial to money market
C Wampler questions Sec Snyder accuracy in statement of US financial soundness, s to ins underwriters
Pres Quirino plans to call lameduck Cong session to vote funds for running Govt rest of yr
Treas to prepay on Mar 15 over $1.962 billion in 2% bonds due in '52; refinancing with notes at 1 1/8% interest rate seen
Investors exploiting of low short-term interest rates to gain high yields on US local govt bonds discussed
Gov Dewey, after conf with Legis Repub fiscal leaders, says there will be no new taxes, '50-51
US Sup Ct invalidates ruling that NYC Mfrs Trust Co must turn over Nazi Govt Deutsche Reichsbank funds to Alien Property Custodian
Dr H M Wriston repts greatest crisis in 50 yrs; issues Dr P H Buck pilot study financed by Rockefeller Foundation; urges tax revision, more pub support, cooperative programs and econ
NYS banks bar China Communist authorities from access to Bank of China funds; cite NYS law
City Planning Comm adopts '50 tentative budget, $14.5 million below Oct 7 proposal; dept allocations; Estimate Bd sets hearing
J P Morgan & Co repts remainder of $100 million '24 bond issue will be redeemed Dec 1, marking redemption of all dollar bonds issued after World War I
Still the Atom The organ that was set up to work out international control of atomic energy -- the United Nations Atomic Energy Commission -- gave up last summer. It decided to suspend business while the permanent commission members held private talks to see if there were any basis at all for agreement.
Dulles claims his election defeat would be victory for USSR, radio s; cites his role in cold war
fear of GB recognition seen as reason for Nationalist withdrawal of funds from Hong Kong banks
Govt wins confidence vote on cuts, Commons; Lord Pres of Council Morrison warns more are in store
From the time that Sir Stafford Cripps, on Sept. 19, announced a revaluation of the British pound from $4.03 to $2.80 one question more than any other has been the subject of lively and continuous speculation. That was the question, What steps will the British Government take to validate the new rate for sterling -- or, in more conversational language, to "make it stick"?
Prime Min Attlee outlines program to bar inflation, Commons; asks 140 million cut in capital investments; Conservatives, Laborites and others reactions
Pres Truman says he will ask Cong to raise taxes in '50 to end deficit financing; gives no details; Repr Doughton backs move; Sen George scores views; Repub reaction hostile
Gov Dewey asserts each worker will pay an added $6 wkly if certain plans under Truman Adm Fair Deal materialize
6 Brit mutual assns set up $5-million trust funds, US, to pay Amer policy holders in dollars
J P Laurel charges Quirino Govt with theft, incompetence and extravagance in connection with $80 million deficit
It was made very plain, at yesterday's hearing at City Hall on the proposed Capital Budget for 1950, that the provisions for new public schools are not adequate. The witnesses who gave up their day largely to this cause plead in behalf of children. They do not, in all cases, demand new schools.
Newbold Morris, the Republican-Liberal-City Fusion candidate for Mayor, said yesterday that Mayor O'Dwyer had "no interest in city government, only in politics,'' and he declared that the Mayor was runnig for office now only to keep himself in politics so that he could run for some other office in the near future.
Citizens Budget Comm urges adoption of NYS Const amendment providing for use of full instead of assessed valuation in determining tax levy for other than debt service under 2% Const limit
NYS to vote on referendum providing for payments to veterans now living outside state who were residents at induction time
Truman says econs have been effected in all depts; promises figures; State C of C Council assails Truman on program costs
J S Cooper (US) asks US share be cut to 1/3 as per '48 Assembly decision, Assembly com
US Repr Weichel charges cos which wrote war ins kept $150 million of Govt funds and made $18 million more by investing it, House com hearing on war risk bill; B K Ogden and Comr Mellen testify
Sen rejects proposal making exec pay bill rises effective on day Truman announces budget bill be balanced
LONDON, Sept. 28 (AP) -- Following are excerpts from the address of Winston Churchill in the House of Commons today:
Govt finances reptd dwindling; may be exhausted within yr; Chiang Kai-shek seen holding bulk of funds
balanced budget held impractical goal for every yr; compensatory deficit spending when unemployment exceeds 5 million advised by 13 profs, repts to Joint Com on Econ Rept subcom
Citizens Budget Comm urges candidates for city office to make use of its files on city finances
Fire Underwriters Natl Bd and other groups rept on cities fire rate gradings, '48; 23 cities may get higher ins rates
Empire State Commerce Assn urges Dewey to submit fiscal '51 budget during 1st wk of Legis session; urges extended pub hearings
small Communist force drives toward Yungyuan; Govt routs div pushing S from Taoyuan; Communists reptdly mass 90,000 troops, Taoyuan area
O'Dwyer makes recommendations, for July 1, '49-Dec 31, '50 budget, message to City Planning Comm; stresses projects link to passage of hosp bond issue referendum
Prime Min Chifley presents budget; plans further gift of $32 1/2 million to GB; says Govt studies possible dollar loan
Poland sues Pan Atlantic and K M Jachmann cos, NYC, to recover $226,680 allegedly overpaid in ins on '46 shipment
Activity in old Czarist bond issues on NY Exch revd; prices drop after '45 boom as redemption rumors fade
Acting Budget Dir Beame submits rept to O'Dwyer on fiscal outlook for capital budget program; repts $654,749,000 appropriated under O'Dwyer Adm to date; backs Controller Joseph estimate city can allocate $234 million for capital projects between July 1, '49 and Dec, 31, '50, and $719,900,000 between July 1, '49 and Dec, 31, '55; estimates based on assumption $150 million hosp bond referendum will be approved; summary; tabulation; chart
M S Szymczak lauds Fed Reserve Bd moves; sees improved bank liquidity and drop in US securities yields as aids; discusses uniform reserve requirements plan
ICC approves new contract between Pullman Co and its 59 owning rrs for pooling of sleeping-car earnings; other terms
comm gets power to settle seamen's ins claims under disestablished War Shipping Adm and claims for protection and indemnity coverage
Adm gets authority to continue pub power programs with Sen passage of Interior Dept supply bill
Rept on collections, fiscal '49; over $1.4 billion drop noted; some major tax groups and their statistics listed
Sen rejects House resolution; rejects Repub move for whole Cong adjournment; House to take vacation under rules permitting 3-day recesses
We would like to think that what Chairman Doughton of the House Ways and Means Committee has just said about tax reduction was to be the last word heard on the subject for some time to come. Up to recently Mr. Doughton believed, he says, that a case could be made for a cut in the wartime excise taxes.
Treas to cut interest rate on 1-yr ctfs to 1 1/8%; to offer 1 yr 1 1/8% ctfs to refund $1,292,443,600 in 2% bonds due Sept 15, 1 yr ctfs to refund ctfs due Oct 15 and notes to redeem Treas bonds due Dec 15
Maritime War Emergency Bd sets hearing on continuing war risk bonuses to seamen sailing in certain areas
W T Faricy links 40-hr wk with future rate rise policy; compares pay and rate rises
Maj Gen Fleming repts US Maritime Comm draft legis for war risk ins on US ships; comments; bill amends '36 Merchant Marine Act; terms
Fed Ct extends deadline for filing reorgn plan; approves trustees sale of 2 parcels of property, Queens; sets hearing on 3d parcel
IBRD mission begins loan study; A S G Hoar says loan will be made for specific projects only
Schiff, Terhune & Co survey shows ins cos offer little in coverage against non-war atomic hazards while indus wants over $300 million worth
T W Ryan sees further NYS rate rises unless drivers in 18-25 age group curb violations
LAKE SUCCESS, Aug. 17 -- Following are the texts of addresses delivered today by Secretary of the Interior Julius A. Krug and Fairfield Osborn at the opening of the United Nations Scientific Conference on the Conservation and Utilization of Resources:
House refuses to approve temporary spending authority as 2d extension lapses; angered by Sen delay in acting on fiscal '50 funds bills
US Cong passes bill providing World War I debt balance be used as educ fund for Finnish students
City Planning Comm begins hearings on '50 budget and '51-55 programs; gets Educ and Higher Educ Bds requests
Repr F Case threatens to resort to unusual parliamentary maneuver to end Cong delay on money bills; will test plan with Army civil functions bill if Sen-House conferees fail to act
Currency Controller annual rept holds risk assets-deposits ratio is unreliable base for bank supervision; cites other bases used
Controller Joseph rept limits '50 borrowing power to $200 million; sets 6-yr debt limit at $1 billion; notes amts may be increased if const amendments are voted in Nov
Controller Gen Warren charges millions in revenue never reach Treas, rept to Cong; cites payments by concessionaires on Govt property; calls funds diversion an inv to fraud
Following is the text of former President Herbert Hoover's address last night at Stanford University on the occasion of his seventy-fifth birthday, as recorded and transcribed by THE NEW YORK TIMES:
Collections rept, fiscal '48, Census Bur; best yielding fields listed; taxes provided 95% of Govt's revenue
fiscal '51 budget to be 'performance budget' in accordance with Hoover Comm proposal; changes involved noted
J A Mills repts drivers under 25 add $125 million yrly to premium rates; cites surveys
Bklyn-Manhattan Trial Counsel Club rept urges NYC Sup Cts be granted power to rept uncooperative ins cos for delaying case settlements
Penna defends '45 sale of 2 parcels in Hempstead business area; comm declines comment; LIRR trustees rept on use of Wheelspur Yard, LI City
Penna RR reply defends sales; charges authorities misrepresented facts and played pol; Sprague and Judd comment; Judd outlines program for LIRR inquiry
F H Ellison sues NY Fidelity & Casualty and Airlines Terminal for $1 million for copyright infringement on policy vending machines at terminals
Schwartz atty says Long Beach blocked plans for oil storage plant on property; explains transaction; urges city take condemnation action and let cts decide property worth
Assemblyman Carlino alleges LIRR sold $170,000 tract to T Karelas for $26,000, '43; discusses both sales and effects on Long Beach; Nassau Supervisors Bd names O G Judd to represent Nassau in all LIRR actions; J R Sprague comments
Nassau County Transit Comm reveals LIRR sold $203,760 tract of land, Long Beach, to H L Schwartz, Paragon Oil Co pres, for $12,000, '48; cites Long Beach unsuccessful bid, '46, for same land; urges inquiry of similar deals
Indication that the recent trend of rising prices in the Government bond market may be leveling off was suggested by the shading of quotations yesterday throughout the whole list of Treasury obligations. Basic sentiment at present levels for the term bonds is firm, however, and the pause may be only time out for profit-taking.
Repr Keefe cites Judge S H Kaufman, family and firm $3,500 contribution to Natl Com in '48
WASHINGTON, July 16 -- The President in his economic message to Congress this week abandoned, at least temporarily, the ascending tax unit in the formula of taxing and spending by which President Roosevelt and his successor carried all but one of the general elections in the United States since 1932. The formula is based on this general theory:
NYS Safe Deposit Assn urges banks to keep safe deposit records 10 yrs to meet NYS laws
Repub radio replies to Truman; Sen Taft says Truman spending follows GB to totalitarianism; sees key in projects nation can afford; hits tax stand
Sen Murray '49 econ expansion bill provides for $11 billion cut in 4 or 5 yrs
Pres Truman appts J R Steelman and Sec Sawyer to work out plan for needed increase in procurement in local unemployment areas
Following is the text of President Truman's radio address to the nation last night as recorded and transcribed by THE NEW YORK TIMES:
WASHINGTON, July 13 -- President Truman today requested the United States Steel Corporation, Republic Steel Corporation and Bethlehem Steel Corporation to reconsider their refusal to go before a Presidentially named board and to present their side of the dispute with the United Steelworkers of America, CIO.
WASHINGTON, July 12 -- With debate on ratification of the North Atlantic Pact nearing an end, the Democratic leadership of the Senate today assigned next priority in its considerations to an increase in the minimum wage.
Life ins cos plan promotional campaign in group annuity field to combat bank inroads; Equitable co efforts described
Treas repts record post-war E Bond sales of $2.3 billion, Jan-June; Opportunity Drive sales pass goal
Natl Com vp W M Boyle Jr repts to Pres Truman after fund-raisins trip in Calif
THIS scholarly book will doubtless give a good deal of sat  isfaction to those who have long insisted, without very much array of evidence to back them up, that the World War was ...
It has long been apparent that the financial problems of this war would be very different from those of the last war. Despite the magnitude of the arms program, there is no question whatever about the ability of the Treasury to raise whatever money it requires in the open market at rates determined by itself.
comm renews charge, reply to W S Franklin denial; trustees D E Smucker and H L DeLatour seek access to comm files on charge
The national debt exceeds $51,000,000,000; the deficit this year will be above $12,000,000,000; the Treasury will have to borrow seven or eight billions more in the remainder of the fiscal year; the Federal Reserve System has just taken steps to wipe out more than $1,000,000,000 of excess bank reserves.
Up-State is virtuous. Down-State is wicked. Wall Street is the capital of the forces of evil. These things have been said so many times that believers in them are a multitude. Still, it is rather curious to find the Republican State Executive Committee setting up a central agency for the collection of campaign funds in rural Madison County and Hamilton town.
The Treasury's announcement of this month's quarterly financing gives some idea of what the Government's new spending program will involve. Outside of the short-term discounted bills, put out by the Treasury from time to time, no new securities have been offered to raise cash in more than a year.
The House Banking and Currency Committee last week approved a bill extending the life of the Office of Price Administration until July 1, 1947. Thus the OPA in this respect got what it asked for. Most of the committee members seem to expect, in return ...
Those familiar with the Orient will recall the tremendous post-war boom enjoyed by the city of Shanghai, the centre of our sphere of influence in the Chinese Republic. The boom continued long after the depression overtook the rest of the world.
What makes careers? Is it the way men blueprint their lives? Or is it the way life bluepencils their fans ? John W. Haussermann should know something about this. He's been a trial lawyer, a county- beat politician, a combat soldier, judge, city counsel, international lawyer, mining industrialist and banker.
The Long Island Chamber of Commerce has now formally submitted to the Board of Estimate its offer to finance the proposed Triborough Bridge with private funds.
From the vantage point of 55 Onslow Gardens, London, the suburb of Kensington to be precise, that indefatigable pamphleteer, Major L.L.B. Angas, has just given us another view of the American scene in his newest work,. "The Boom Begins," a sequel to his "The Coming American Boom," that created considerable stir a year ago.
Second thoughts on voluntary code-making by American industry do not reveal a very clear-cut situation. The wage-hour-price structure under the NRA codes is unconstitutional. It is presumed that wages and working hours can be embodied in voluntary codes; but where is the line of demarcation when it comes to voluntary stabilization of prices when the anti-trust laws are considered?
On the calendar of the Federal Treasury Sept. 15 is a date of unusual importance. The first quarterly income tax payments for the new fiscal year will be received that day, furnishing comparison with last year's receipts. On the same day two blocks of short-term certificates of indebtedness mature, amounting to $712,000,000, and these issues will require new financing.
Dr A Schweitzer int; revs his study of Goethe; T Wilder and H Koht s; concert
Renewed strength was evident in the Government bond market again with the end of the holiday week-end, with the best gains registered by long-term issues of Treasury bonds not eligible for ownership by commercial banks. The longest-term obligations in this restricted category -- those of September and December, 1972-1967 -- were bid up a half-point each, to close the day at 102 1/2, a yield basis of 2.35 per cent to maturity.
Since the automobile industry is dependent on the continued supply of a large number of different parts, industrial executives were greatly interested in the action taken by the General Motors Corporation last week when a strike at its Chevrolet transmission factory at Toledo threatened to affect the assembly lines.
Nobody has objected to HENRY FORD'S practical finance, and nobody is likely to. He has "made" his own money by economies in production which have not been "robbery" or "exploitation" of labor. The ...
Criticism that corporations in hard times have been paying out a disproportionate amount of their precious cash in the form of executive salaries is heard again. The angriest remonstrance comes from interests which have little if any financial stake in the corporations concerned but which profess to be concerned over the anti-social aspects of this type of corporate generosity.
Scenes enacted last week at the massive gates of the Bank of France at 1 Rue de la Vrilliere, Paris, when long queues of citizens waited to push franc notes through the wickets for bars of gold, were reminiscent of the dark days here in March, 1933, when our own Old Lady of Liberty Street was besieged by those clamoring for gold coin.
What most strikes one in the Secretary of the Treasury's offer of short-term certificates is the ease with which the large and difficult task of providing for the redemption of the remaining bonds of the Second Liberty Loan has been handled.
Thomas S. Holden, vice president of the F. W. Dodge Corporation and president of the New York Building Congress, will speak on "Private Enterprise and Finance in Housing" tomorrow evening at the sixth weekly forum on housing problems conducted in cooperation
It is remarkable how much of the current discussion of world affairs proceeds as if there were no science or even alphabet of finance, and as if there were no precedent for the miseries attested by the famine in Russia, the riots in Vienna, and the upbidding of dollars in several financial centres as ...
The Western Union strikers are striking against the decision of a Federal Government board. They are doing this in spite of the prior written pledge of their union to abide by this decision when rendered.
In its new financing today the Treasury is adopting several innovations. Instead of the long-term bonds upon which it has chiefly relied recently, it is reverting to a money-market favorite once frequently employed but which has been out of use for eight years -- the Treasury certificate of indebtedness.
Mr. MATTHEW WOLL, Vice President of the American Federation of Labor, wants the "organized wage "earners to give friendly considera"tion to the plea for the purchase,"
In the financing of our $40,000,000,000 defense program there are, as Secretary of the Treasury Morgenthau has said, two problems. One is how to raise so much money. The other is how to raise it with a minimum of damage to our whole economy.
A first mortgage loan of $115,000 at 4 per cent Interest and 2 per cent amortization was made by the Seamen's Bank for Savings on the 5-story office and loft building at 227-229 E 44th St. owned and occupied by Jacobson  Co. Howard Geoghegan  Associates were the brokers and title was insured by the Home Title Guaranty Co.
The $656,000,000 tax bill that the Administration has introduced in the House should receive full support as a token of the nation's willingness to bear an increased burden for defense. But it would be a serious mistake to consider this tax bill as a solution of the real fiscal problem involved.
Commerce Dept com urges Govt to insure private bank loans to small business; says adm agency should not have power to rev loans
Election; J G Phillips pres and T J Watson bd chmn; IBM World Trade Corp officers noted
NYS Comr Keller urges smaller contracts under depressed areas and plan to allow small concerns to bid, lr to Sec Sawyer
Greater area contains 4 out of 5 NYS counties with most mfg plants, US Commerce Dept preliminary rept on '47 Mfrs Census
Sen McCarran seeks to amend Johnson bill to give stockholders credit for for taxes paid by corps and to liberalize deductions for small business
The great nations are today helping one another to be ready to fight, quite possibly with each other, as never before. From their principal ports hundreds of ships are streaming over the seas with the finished products and the materials which war must have.
HERE are the logic and the gist of this vigorously written, and confessedly biased,  little book on the private and public virtues which Mr. Robinson thinks are needed to rescue and protect business from a hostile government.
Moderate increases in the dollar volume of wholesale dry goods sales have developed in the last week, reports to resident offices here yesterday said. In some sections, where previously sales had held about even with a year ago or had shown slight declines, the dollar volume this week will be above a year ago, it was said.
LaGuardia scores cos attempts to interfere with traffic regulations; cites N Y C Omnibus Corp suit against 8th and 9th Avs 1-way order
St Rys Ad Cos of N Y and Del, B G Collier Inc of N Y and N J, B G Collier Corp, RR Ad and Pa Rys Ad Cos file petitions in bankruptcy
Absorption of Hartsdale Natl Bank approved by dirs of both insts; conditions repts as of Mar 26
In your cogent editorial "TVA After Fifteen Years," in the Jan. 2 issue, you state "What TVA has done is to show that they (other possible river authorities) can be solved in a democratic way, with few or none of the evils of centralized bureaucracy." Clearly an inference is that government in business is a victim of waste, bureaucracy, politics, etc.
After a consultation between the Federal prohibition authorities in Washington and New York it was decided, ostensibly for the purpose of relieving the congested calendars of Federal courts, that henceforth...
Andrew E. Chute of the Foster-Wheeler Corporation, has been elected president of the Junior Chemical Engineers of New York City.
Packers of a number of canned food items were reported yesterday to be taking a fairly large amount of "ship as packed" orders, at strong prices. Business of this kind has included Maine sardines, West Coast cling peaches and Alaska pink salmon.
Ray M. Schmitz, formerly assistant to the executive, has been elected vice president of General Foods Corporation to assume charge of the newly created Corporate Development department.
Alfred B. Cohen, of Kirby Block  Co. has been chosen to receive the annual reward of the Fur Garment Traveling Salesmen's Association as the man who did most to advance the interests of the fur industry in 1948, it was announced yesterday.
Visiting buyers registered in the market for the week ended yesterday totaled only 743 due to the religious holiday, against 1,884 last week and 1,687 in the similar week a year ago, according to lists published in THE NEW YORK TIMES. There were 110 arrivals yesterday compared with 947 last Tuesday.
Jesse Frankel, formerly a sales manager in the textile machinery field, has joined M. Lowenstein  Sons, Inc., as assistant to S. L. Hagan, vice president in charge of sales.
Charles D. Hummel has purchased the interest of Harry W. Bragg in the Bragg  Hummel Electric Company and will continue the business under the same name at 547 Greenwich Street.
Loss of one business day because of the celebration of Washington's Birthday on Monday is likely to result in a small percentage decline in retail sales here this week, as compared with a year ago. Department store executives estimated the drop yesterday at 1 or 2 per cent.
In an effort to discover current conditions and views in credit operations on a nation-wide basis, a questionnaire entitled "How's Business" will be mailed shortly to members of the New York, Los Angeles and Chicago associations affiliated with the National Association of Credit Men, it was announced yesterday by Mortimer J. Davis, executive manager of the association.
Declines ranging from 10 to 35 per cent under May levels were recorded yesterday at the sale of Hudson's Bay Company furs held by Lampson, Fraser  Huth. The top prices and percentage of decreases for the furs offered were white fox, $37, decline 10 per cent; otter, $25, 20 per cent; fisher, $94, 35 per cent; marten, $115, 10 per cent; lynx, $60, 10 per cent; skunk, $2.90, 20 per cent.
OIT adopts NY form for filing atty power with customs collectors under new export license rule for natl use
Tuesday's announcement by President Sloan of the General Motors, that in the next two weeks his company will re-employ 35,000 workers, was a reassuring incident. The announcement reflected conditions in an industry which has been hard hit in the recent business reaction.
Paul Hilton, long active in the tie fabric field in Brussels, Belgium, has been appointed general manager of the Raxon Western Hemisphere Corporation.
Warren R. Purcell has been appointed manager of quality control for the lamp division of Sylvania Electric Products, Inc.
Charles F. Stromeyer, vice president of the Hytron Radio and Electronics Corporation of Salem, Mass., has been appointed president of Remco Electronic, Inc., to succeed Irving Rose, deceased. William W. Roberts, chief engineer of Remco, will continue as vice president.
Sales of Brooklyn and New York department stores increased 10 per cent last week over the corresponding period last year, according to the "flash" report issued yesterday by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. The rise for the four weeks ended last Saturday was 4 per cent.
letxil sales declined during the week, according to estimates made here yesterday. Contributing to the decline w. ere a religious holi-j day and some wet weather. Departmerit store sales here were believed to be about 13 per cent below the corresponding week last year.
Douglas Williamson has been appointed manager of sales promotion of American Hard Rubber Company.
In those nations where free government is nonexistent, or where an omnipotent state has assumed full responsibility for making the economic system work, the relationship between government and business is preordained, and therefore non-debatable. In this and other countries, however, where men are as united in their allegiance to free enterprise as they are to free government, the reverse holds true.
Michael Joseph Phillips has been appointed general manager of the new industrial division of Greer Hydraulics, Inc., of Brooklyn. He was formerly manufacturing vice president of the Universal Business Machine Company and assistant to the president of Jack  Heintz Precision Industries, Inc.
From a high point reached in midsummer, THE TIMES index of, business activity has now run jaggedly downhill for eight consecutive weeks. Some observers find in this performance the beginning of a new depression.
Leading men's hat manufacturers will show their 1943 Summer lines to the trade tomorrow, with wholesale prices generally continuing at last year's levels. Some new bodies will be introduced, Manufacturers stated yesterday that no attempt has been made to narrow the number of offerings for next year.
Sales of New York and Brooklyn department stores showed an increase last week of 22 per cent over the like week of last year, according to the "flash" report issued yesterday by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. The gain for the preceding week was 6 per cent.
As casualties overseas continue and increase, the supply of whole blood and plasma to the armed forces must keep pace.
Retail trade here improved sharply toward the end of the week. Estimates indicated department stores would have gains ranging up to 25 per cent over a year ago. A major factor in the large percentage increase over last year, however, was the six business days against five in 1942, when the comparative week closed with the July 4 holiday.
Curtiss-Wright Corporation announced Charles W. France, vice president and general manager at Buffalo, returns to St. Louis as general manager; N.F. Vanderlipp, factory manager at Columbus, becomes general manager at Buffalo; Burton H. Witherspoon, general manager at St. Louis, director of business research at Buffalo, and Ralph R. Fuhrer, general superintendent of planning and tooling at Columbus.
John D. Benedito has been appointed manager of the newly-created extrusion and molding materials division, thermoplastics department of the Bakelite Corporation, unit of Union Carbide and Carbon Corporation.
C. Duffield Clarke has been named manager of national accounts and head of a newly organized vending machine division of the Charles E. Hires Company.
Adverse weather conditions took toll of retail trade here this week. Department store volume was estimated as running around 5 per cent under the comparative 1941 week. Winter coat and furniture promotions met only fair consumer response.
Visiting buyers registered in the market for the week ended yesterday numbered 878, as against 717 in the preceding week, and 1,318 in the like period of 1942, according to the listings in THE NEW YORK TIMES. Yesterday's arrivals totaled 439, which compared with, 318 last Tuesday.
Courtland Burtenshaw has been appointed store manager in charge of retail activities for Mark Cross Company, Fifth Avenue and Fiftysecond Street.
Men's clothing manufacturers are giving very little publicity this year to their Fall openings because of the price rises involved. Instead of the so-called "official" openings of previous years, the manufacturers are quietly giving new prices to their customers and asking that they be kept confidential.
The number of out-of-town buyers registered in the market during the week ended yesterday was 533 as against 794 in the previous week and 712 in the like period a year go, according to the listings in THE NEW YORK TIMES. Yesterday's arrivals totaled 239 as against 313 for a week ago.
Joseph Jacobson has been appointed director of sales of Diamond Silver Company, Lambertville, N.J., succeeding Robert Kesler, retired.
Gladys Weingarten has been appointed department manager of the main floor staples department at Lane Bryant, Inc.
Alan B. Helffrich has been appointed general sales manager of the printing, publication and converting paper division of the St. Regis Sales Corporation, subsidiary of the St. Regis Paper Company.
The Textile Color Card Association will hold its twenty-third annual business meeting and election of officers on Thursday at its offices, 200 Madison Avenue.
Eugene F. Hartley, formerly executive secretary and economist for the International Business Machines Corporation, has been retained as special consultant on the mechanization of office operations by Tecco Systems Company, office methods and systems engineers.
Sales of New York and Brooklyn department stores showed an increase of 19 per cent last week over the comparative week last year, according to the "flash" report issued yesterday by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. For the preceding week the bank had reported a gain of 14 per cent over 1943.
Sales of New York and Brook lyn department stores showed a rise of 26 per cent last week over the like period last year, according to the "flash" report issued yesterday by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. For the .preceding week the bank had reported a rise of 6 per cent.
Men's Wear Sales Active Men's wear trade continued very active this week, with all types of goods selling, retail executives reported here yesterday. Sales of Summer clothing pulled very well and furnishings and sportswear were also active, despite the fact that there were fewer $1 shirt specials than last year.
Michael Bachman, formerly with the Meadowgold Ice Cream Company of Brooklyn, has been appointed general sales manager of the Blue Ribbon Ice Cream Company, Inc.
Sales of New York and Brooklyn department stores showed an increase of 3 per cent for last week in comparison with the like week a year ago, according to the "flash" report issued yesterday by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.
Sales of New York and Brooklyn department stores showed an increase last week of 6 per cent over the July Fourth week of 1941, according to the report issued yesterday by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. The report, however, covered five selling days, against four last year when a majority of stores were closed both on July 4 and the next day, Saturday.
Arthur Meyer has been named sales manager of the shirting division of Verney Corporation of New York and assistant to Dan C. Lippman. He formerly was general sales and merchandise manager of Allen Snyder, Inc.
Dr. J.B. Rather of the Socony-Vacuum Oil Company, Inc., has been appointed a member of the manufacturing committee as technical adviser.
Many department stores, in their attempt to offset the shrinkage of men's clothing sales, have been endeavoring to establish work clothing departments, but with little success because of the shortage of such garments. Too, manufacturers and wholesalers are allocating their stocks to regular customers and are giving little merchandise to those stores which they had been trying unsuccessfully to sell for years.
Exhibitors reported good activity yesterday at the conclusion of the exhibit period at the annual convention of the National Association of College Stores at the Hotel Commodore. Sales representatives of firms making automatic pen and pencil sets, notebook binders, stationery and college insignia made favorable comment on orders booked.
Aided by the heavy "beat-the-tax" buying of liquors, retail trade here showed substantial increases this week. Some department stores had sales gains of about 25 per cent over last week, in which buying of foodstuffs as well as liquors played an important part.
Anthony M. Ryerson has been appointed assistant general manager of sales for the Inland Steel Company. He replaces Neele H. Stearns, recently elected executive vice president of the subsidiary Inland Steel Products Company of Milwaukee.
Out-of-town buyers registered in the market for the week ended yesterday numbered 1,564, against 374 in the preceding week and 1,160 in the similar period of 1942, according to the lists published in THE NEW YORK TIMES. Yesterday's arrivals totaled 778, which compared with 34 last Tuesday.
Henry Miller, counsel for the Federal Trade Commission, will discuss the commission's procedure under the increased powers conferred by the Wheeler-Lea bill at the conference on business conditions to be held at the Roosevelt Hotel today and tomorrow by manufacturers of beauty-parlor equipment, furniture and supplies.
Plans for the development of an expanded program for the various groups of the National Association of Apparel Chains will be actively pursued this Fall, A. H. Klubock, president, said yesterday. The controllers' group, he pointed out, is already well advanced on its program.
THE time-worn situation of a cool business marriage with  one of the pair warmly in love with his mate and the other tepidly unconscious of that love is the groundwork for "Strange Honeymoon."
Alden C. Olander has been appointed retail merchandising manager of Bendix Home Appliance, Inc., South Bend, Ind.
Edward J. Kelly has been appointed works manager of Emerson Radio and Phonograph Corporation.
Fred M. Hunt has been appointed Boston zone manager of the Packard Motor Car Company, Detroit. He formerly was Eastern regional manager, with headquarters in New York City.
G.A. England has been appointed manager of foundry sales for the American Car and Foundry Company with headquarters in New York. He will have charge of sales of ACF foundry products and wheels.
C. S. Brach has been appointed cost and price manager of the specialties division of the Yale  Towne Manufacturing Company.
John M. Hughlett, formerly vice president and general manager of Dan River Mills, Inc., has joined J. P. Stevens  Co., in an executive capacity. He will assume his duties in November after a vacation.
Out-of-town buyers registered in the New York market for the week ended yesterday numbered 1,464, compared with 1,484 last week and 1,118 in the similar week a year ago, according to the listings appearing in THE NEW YORK TIMES.
Frank J. Shanaberg has been named Eastern district sales manager of the American Welding and Manufacturing Company, Warren, Ohio. The Eastern district offices will be moved Monday from 500 Fifth Avenue, New York City, to 1060 Broad Street, Newark 2, N.J.
Department store sales here turned upward this week. Estimates yesterday indicated average volume was running about 5 per cent ahead of the like week last yeast. Buying interest was reported well distributed over many store sections.
C. T. Krug has been appointed field sales manager in the New York sales office of Cluett, Peabody  Co., Inc., to succeed George S. Robinson, who has resigned to join Swank, Inc.
Floyd W. Leonard, recently with the War Production Board, has joined the William L. Gilbert Clock Corporation, Winsted, Conn., as merchandise manager.
S. Reed Anthony, formerly assistant sales manager of the rayon fiber division of the American Viscose Corporation, has been appointed a merchandise executive of Greenwood Mills, Inc.. effective June 1.
The annual business meeting of the Textile Color Card Association will be held this morning at the offices of the organization, 200 Madison Avenue.
Melvin E. Sawin, vice president of the Atlas Corporation, has been elected to the board of directors of Textron, Inc.
Retail Sales Drop Off Metropolitan New York department store sales showed a decline this week of 1 per cent as compared with the corresponding week a year ago, according to trade estimates yesterday. This was attributed to the end of the vacation month and approaching Labor Day week-end and to low stocks.
David Polikoff has been appointed sales manager of Jos. S. Finch  Co., Chicago. Mr. Polikoff for the past ten years had been associated with Schenley Distillers Corporation sales organization.
Appointment of Laurence A. Thomas as manager of the Ohrbach store now under construction on Wilshire Boulevard in Los Angeles was announced over the week-end by Jerome K. Ohrbach, president of Ohrbach's, Inc.
William C. Bruton has been appointed district sales manager for American Manganese Steel division of the American Brake Shoe Company. Robert H. Elem has been named Pacific Coast manager of the welding products department.
Sales of New York and Brooklyn department stores showed a rise of 2 per cent for the week ended July 8 over the like week last year, according to the "flash report" issued yesterday by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. The showing for the week was affected by the variation in number of business days, most stores having one less business day.
Most enamelware producers, whose order backlogs now average five to six months, are refusing to accept new business, and shipments on old commitments are running slower, distributors reported yesterday. One jobber said he had not yet received complete delivery on an order that was placed for immediate shipment in January.
J. L. Buckner has retired as vice president of Corn Products Refining Company after thirty-seven years with the concern.
Inquiries on availability of cotton textiles have increased perceptiblyh)0*0*0*iin the last few days, Worth Street sources said yesterday. The bag trade reported activity on osnaburgs for Government shipment of flour and the industrial trade is putting out feelers on narrow sheetings and other fabrics.
Sales of New York and Brooklyn department stores last week showed an increase of 15 per cent over the like week last year, according to the "flash" report issued yesterday by the Federal Serve Bank of New York. For the preceding week, sales had shown a rise of 1 per cent.
Promotion of Gordon P. Lovell to be assistant to the general sales manager of the International Business Machines Corporation, was announced yesterday. Successor to Mr. Lovell as Gistrict sales manager will be McLain B. Smith, electric accounting machine manager in Philadelphia.
While admitting there is no authority in the General Maximum Price Regulation which would enable it to "smoke out" hoarded stocks of nylon hosiery in time for Christmas shoppers, OPA officials said yesterday that inventories could be checked as part of its enforcement of pricing regulations.
William S. Begg has been appointed vice president and secretary of the American Steel and Pump Corporation.
Sales of New York and Brooklyn stores showed an increase of 27 per cent last week over the comparative week last year, according to the "flash" report issued yesterday by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. However, the week contained six business days against five last year, when July 4 came on a Saturday.
Retail trade here was spotty this week. Dropping of sales events held at this time last year resulted in sales losses for some stores, while others were able to achieve increases over 1942. Estimates indicated that on the average department stores would probably show a decline.
Sales of New York and Brooklyn department stores showed an increase of 17 per cent for the week ended Jan. 3, according to the "flash report" issued yesterday by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. For the preceding week, including the extra selling day before Christmas, the bank had reported a gain of 31 per cent over the preceding year.
John H. Sienold, formerly banquet manager of the Hotel New Yorker, has been appointed sales manager of the Hotel Plaza.
Retail sales declined during the week, according to estimates made here yesterday. Department store sales were believed to be about 6 per cent below the corresponding week last year. Sales last week !were 10 per cent below a year ago.
Fred E. Graham, in charge of sales in the Southern territory for the Hickok Manufacturing Company, Inc., manufacturer of men's belts, braces and jewelry, and Leo H. Schiff, head of the Los Angeles office, have been named directors of the company.
Sales of New York and Brooklyn department stores last week were unchanged from those of the comparative week last year, according to the preliminary report issued yesterday by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. The week, however, had five business days against six in 1942.
W E Chollar says US elec shaver demand continues heavy despite doubled '46 output over '41 pre-war peak
Howard A. DeLong, who has been manager of the New York office for the Charles P. Cochrane Company, carpet manufacturers, Bridegport, Pa., has been appointed Eastern division manager, it was announced yesterday. Mr. DeLong has been associated with the company for the past fifteen years.
Alvan D. Peabody has been elected head of a new rural market development department of the electric appliance division of the Westinghouse Electric  Manufacturing Company.
Retail trade here this week reflected the combined influences of Easter shopping and "beat-the-tax" buying of merchandise coming under the 20 per cent Federal excise levies today. The result was an increase over last year estimated as high as 40 per cent by some store executives. Sales gains in taxable items ranged up to 300 per cent or more.
John Guter has been appointed sales manager of the Armstrong Food Company, division of the Borden Company, producing dog food.
Visiting buyers registered in the market for the week ended yesterday were 1,118, compared with 1,023 in the preceding week and 1,724 in the similar period of 1943, according to the lists published in THE NEW YORK TIMES. Yesterday's arrivals numbered 528 against 441 last Tuesday.
Trade-Gains Here Level Off Recent retail trade gains here leveled off this week. Department store volume was expected to show little average change from the like week a year ago. Comparison, however, was with the extremely large sales figures of the week which followed the end of the trucking and delivery strike in 1946.
Charles M. Pritzker, formerly vice president of the Conrad Razor Blade Company, Inc., has sold his interest in that organization and joined the Gillette Safety Razor Company as advertising manager. He was advertising manager of the Valet AutoStrop Safety Razor Company for five years.
Out-of-town buyers registered in the market for the week ended yesterday numbered 1,172 as against 1,536 in the preceding week and 1,070 in the similar period of last year, according to the listings in THE NEW YORK TIMES. Yesterday's arrivals totaled 543 which compared with 626 last Tuesday.
Trade Here Off 5 to 10% While retail trade results this week will largely depend on the sales volume today, merchants yesterday estimated department stores here would have a decline of 5 to 10 per cent under the corresponding week last year.
Warren R. Smith has been appointed assistant to the president and director of public relations of Fairchild Engine and Airplane Corporation. All corporate public relations functions of the company have been transferred to Hagerstown, Md.
Edwin J. Fitzpatrick has been appointed executive vice president of the Industrial Tape Corporation. He was formerly vice president and director of American Home Foods, Inc., and president of its Chef Boy-Ar-Dee division.
New York City's wage earners in manufacturing establishments numbered 565,000 in the year 1929, according to the Census Bureau at Washington. In 1919 they numbered 639,000.
The entrance examinations of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology for the present year, for applicants living in the vicinity of this city, will be held at the Fifth-Avenue Hotel June 2 and 3.
AMHERST, Mass., Oct. 15. -- Amherst and the School of Technology teams played a well-contested game of football this afternoon on Pratt Field. Technology had out a very strong team while Amherst was semewhat weakened by the absence of Capt. Pratt at full back. Ellis, who took his place, kicked beautifully, but was not very successful in gaining ground.
BOSTON, Oct. 29. -- The Chicago A.A football team added one more scalp to its belt this afternoon on the South End grounds by easily defeating the Technology eleven by a score of 46 to 0.
Formed by Armour Inst of Tech and Lewis Inst merger; trustees bd meeting; H T Heald elected pres
Chester M. Wallace, teacher of dramatics at Carnegie Institute of Technology, who has sent many pupils on to stardom on Broadway and in Hollywood, died early today in Allegheny General Hospital. He was 54 years old.
PITTSBURG, April 13. -- A Pittsburg brewer has become a thorn in the flesh of the Carnegie Technology School Trustees, and unless he changes the name of a brand of new beer, which he has put on the market, the $10,000,000 technological school, Mr. Carnegie's gift to Pittsburg, may change its name.
BALTIMORE, Md., Feb. 3. -- A party composed of committees of the Maryland State Senate and the House of Delegates, and representatives of the Johns Hopkins University, left Baltimore on Thursday for a tour of inspection of large scientific schools in the East. At the present time the Legislature is considering a bill which appropriates $1,500,000 for the establishment of a School of Technology at Homewood, the new site of the Johns Hopkins University.
LOS ANGELES, Oct. 30.--An interesting and significant event is scheduled for this week-end at Pasadena, where the Athenaeum, a beautiful new structure on the campus of the California Institute of Technology where Dr. Millikan makes the atoms perform, is to be formally opened.
BOSTON, Mass., March 22. -- The report of the special committee on dormitories for the Massachusetts Institute of Technology was presented this week to the council of the alumni. It was read by Charles W. Eaton of Haverhill. The committee made an inspection of all the newer college dormitories in the country, and those of the University of Pennsylvania come in for special consideration.
BOSTON, Mass., March 20. -- The open scratch games of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, at the Technology Gymnasium, to-night, brought out a large number of athletes, and, while no records were broken, the contests were spirited and interesting. The results follow:
More than thirty-five new courses will be offered for the first time in all branches of the City Collegearts and science, technology, business and education-during the day and evening sessions in the appreaching Fall semester, it was announced yesterday.
eclipse; weather conditions spoil plans of some expeditions to photograph it; dispatch by Prof W J Luyten; aviators and expedition of Mass Inst of Technology get photos; spectacle viewed in N Y C; next eclipse will be seen in 1925
Plans for the expansion and modification of the City College School of Technology, which provide for the erection of two small building's and redistribution of present facilities at a cost of $500,000, were announced yesterday by Dr. Harry N. Wright, president of the college.
CAMBRIDGE, Mass., Oct. 11. -- The game scheduled for Bowdoin was played to-day by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. The warm weather brought out 2,000 spectators. "Teck" was well represented. The game was won by Corbett, Dunlop, and Brewer, aided by the fine interference of Acton and the tackling of Johnson and Baldwin. Capt Waters did not play, and Beal was replaced by Laimbeer on account of slight injury in practice.
ITHACA, N.Y., Nov. 12 -- Cornell defeated Technology to-day in a spirited game by the score of 44 to 12. Both teams played well, though both were weak on the defensive, especially Technology. Cornell broke repeatedly through her line and made long runs around the ends. Technology confined her offensive work to bucking the line, which was very effective.
ATLANTA, Oct. 20.--Georgia Tech, Southern football champion, this afternoon gave Washington and Lee the worst defeat the Generals have ever received when they rolled up nine touchdowns and kicked nine goals from touchdowns for a score of 63 to 0. Strupper, Tech's All-America half; Joe Guyon, the former Carlisle star, and Hill at quarter were Tech's stars.
PHILADELPHIA, March 27.--Overnight or week-end educations in "memory training and business management" were criticised today by Dr. Hollis Godfrey, President of the Drexel Institute. Addressing the convention of the Technology Clubs Associated, he ...
Brit indus, labor and Govt reprs deny US Machinery and Allied Products Inst charges of inefficiency; cite post-war gains
Percy com rept to Educ Ministry warns on tech lag danger to industry; offers plan to encourage training; recommends colls establishment to give undergraduate and graduate courses, GB
WORCESTER, Mass., May 23 -- The nine colleges of the New-England Intercollegiate Athletic Association admitted the Massachusetts Institute of Technology to membership last Winter, and now they are sorry. The new-comer attended the annual games at Worcester Oval in force this afternoon and won first place with ease, chiefly by reason of its superiority in middle and longdistance running and in bicycling.
CAMBRIDGE, Mass., Nov. 2. -- In the rain and fog this afternoon Harvard played football with the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and won by a score of 34 to 0. The ground and the ball were so wet and the field was so dark toward the end that a slip or chance often counted more than strength or skill.
BOSTON, Mass., Aug. 4 -- The management of the Institute of Technology is arranging to establish a special course for those graduates of Annapolis and West Point who intend to enter the Ordnance Department of the Government. The course will deal solely with the making and designing of large guns for coast defense.
CAMBRIDGE, Mass., Feb. 17.-- Harvard's varsity and freshman wrestling teams were vastly superior to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology teams in a dual meet at the Tech gym tonight.
NEW HAVEN, Conn., Jan. 13. -- Yale opened its new $4,000 skating rink this afternoon with the first hockey game played at home by Capt. Archer Harman's team this season. Yale defeated the Massachusetts Institute of Technology seven from Boston, 5 to 3. The game was the only athletic event of Yale's annual social week which began to-day, and a large number of society people were included in the crowd.
Nine members of the House of Representatives of the State of Georgia arrived in this City last evening after a pleasant sail on the steamship Chattahoochee, from Savannah. The members of the party are the Hons. N.E. Harris, of Macon; F.P. Rice, of Atlanta; M.V. Calvin, of Augusta; W.A. Little, of Columbus; R.F. Watts, R.B. Russell. W.A. Wilson, Thomas Eason and W.N. Spence, and M.A. Hardin, Clerk of the House.
Announces $230,000 Guggenheim gift to Mass Inst of Technolog will be used for aeronautical engineering bldg
Bemis, Albert Farwell, and J Burchard 2d; The Evolving House: Volume I. A History of the Home
BOSTON, Jan. 15.--Richard C. Maclaurin, President of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, died at his home late today of pneumonia. He had been ill since Saturday.
The new building which will house the school of business and civic administration at City College, at Lexington Avenue and Twenty-third Street, will be ready for occupancy a year hence. President Frederick Robinson announced last night at a dinner of the class of 1911 in honor of George W. Edwards, member of the class, and newly appointed dean of the school.
Dr Dulbecco studies effect of light on organic growth; finds invisible light (ultra-violet) kills organisms and visible light reactivates them
Dr J C Warner named pres-designate to succeed Dr Doherty; is 1st staff member named to post
Reply to Roosevelt lr on engineering educ charges "pol gunning" has destroyed industry's economic and soc agencies
conf scientists see world population at 3 billion by end of century and 6 billion by 2030
At a meeting of the Executive and Advisory Committees of the Intercollegiate Athletic Association yesterday afternoon at the Waldorf several important recommendations were carried that will be placed before the annual meeting of the association next month. The application of Massachusetts Institute of Technology for membership was favorably acted upon and it is considered certain that the annual meeting will approve the action taken.
Dr J D Mooney sees training chief program bottleneck; warns against letting tech training overshadow sociological
OFFICIALLY it is known as the graduate course for Naval Constructors in the department of naval architecture of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Theoretically it is only a branch of a private educational institution. In reality it is the school established by Uncle Sam himself for the rearing of those who are to plan and build his floating ocean fortresses.
Gen. O'Ryan advises use of pistol to discipline soldiers, members advised by Col. Lucas to join Engineers' Regiment
Firm which forced execs to find work for men before machine displacing them could be installed develops many new products
Sen Kilgore offers bill for Office of Technological Mobilization creation; would bar $1-a-yr men; clash with Office of Tech Development and rumors of friction on WPB office head cited
Because they were outvoted by a majority of one, the Columbia, Harvard, and Cornell Fencing Clubs yesterday resigned from the Intercollegiate Fencing League. The annual meeting was held in the New York Athletic Club and it was the stormiest meeting in the history of the league. Delegates were present from all the clubs in the organization, including, besides the three retiring ones, West Point, Annapolis, University of Pennsylvania, and Yale.
WASHINGTON, April 12--Answering testimony given yesterday by Charles R. Hook, president of the American Rolling Mill Company, to the effect that employment in the steel industry had risen by 117,000 between 1926 and 1937, Philip Murray ...
The graduation exercises of the Class of '75 of the Stevens Institute of Technology took place in the Institute building, on Fifth street, Hoboken, last evening. The room in which the meeting was hold was filled by about 1000 persons, comprising the wealth and fashion of the City, among them being Gov. Bedle, Prof. Wall, and other well-known persons.
The Carnegie Corporation of New York announced yesterday that it had arranged to give an additional $17,462,000 to the Carnegie Institute of Pittsburgh and the Carnegie Institute of Technology. Part of this is made conditional upon the raising of $4,200,000 from outside sources, so that the institutions founded by Andrew Carnegie at Pittsburgh will probably have a total increase in endowment of $21,662,000.
Mayor La Guardia revealed yesterday that he is hopeful that the city's college system can be reorganized so that one of the free higher educational institutions will become a school of technology and another, or at least part of another, a school of government.
The writer of the following letter is senior United States Senator from Alabama and chairman of the Senate Committee on Education and Labor. He is one of the authors of the Black - Connery Wages - and - Hours Bill, now awaiting action by the Senate. His co-author was the late Representative William P. Connery Jr. of Massachusetts.
Thomas A. Edison said yesterday at his home at Llewellyn Park that he gave editorial writers in general an "XYZ" or "flunking" mark for the showings which they have made in handling his questionnaire.
A SECOND visit to the new building of the Art Centre shows the merit of restricted exhibits. There is nothing more in this first exhibition than one may  comfortably take in, and there is no ...
Eight new instructors, five of them members of the Stevens 1934 graduating class, have been appointed to the faculty of Stevens Institute of Technology for the coming year. Eleven instructors have been reappointed. William Chace Greene, professor at Massachusetts Institute of Technology, has been named exchange professor to take the place of Professor John Fife, instructor in English and the humanities, who will teach at Massachusetts Institute of Technology during the coming year.
CAMBRIDGE, Mass., May 7.--Harvard's varsity track team beat Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 69 to 48, in a dual game in the stadium this afternoon.
A large gathering of distinguished alumni of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology attended a dinner given at the Waldorf-Astoria last night in honor of Dr. Karl Taylor Compton, who completed ten years as president of M.I.T. yesterday. The event was held under
CAMBRIDGE, Mass., April 14. -- The Massachusetts Institute of Technology has a new dawn patrol of thirty students.
will establish new school of engineering in Penn in co-operation with U. S. Bur of Mines and coal operators of Pittsburgh district
CAMBRIDGE, Mass., Feb. 16. -- Harvard won the triangular fencing meet between Columbia, Technology, and Harvard in the Technology gymnasium this evening, the Crimson fencers taking twelve bouts. Columbia secured second place, with eight bouts, while Technology won seven. The feature of the evening was the bout between the Lage brothers, F. Lage representing Columbia, and J. Lage Technology.
Six programs in special subjects, including three courses not before given, will feature the Summer session of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Professor Edwin S. Burdell, chairman of the new Summer session committee, stated today.
French Soc of Certified Architects medal awarded to Prof W F Hitchens of Pittsburgh Carnegie Inst
The rifle team of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology defeated the Columbia University marksmen on the latter's ranges yesterday, 1,349 to 1,315. Fred Cole, captain of the losers, was the individual high gun with a score of 279.
Award of the Franklin Medal in physical science for 1937 to Dr. Robert A. Millikan of the California Institute of Technology and to Dr. P. J. W. Debye of the Kaiser Wilhelm Institute, Berlin, is announced by the Franklin Institute.
NEW HAVEN, Conn., Nov. 28. -- In a game played in a driving snowstorm, Yale today outscored the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 6 to 1, at soccer. The players were unable to hold their feet and repeatedly slid in attempting kicks and defensive play.
BOSTON, May 13.--Oarsmen of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology will engage in their last dual race of the season next Saturday atfernoon, when they Will row against Columbia University on the Harlem River, Columbia, ...
S at conf between Pres S W Stratton, Press of Mass Inst of Technology, and leaders of graphic arts industry on need for trained men in mechanical dept of newspapers
BOSTON, April 2 -- The Pyramid Club craze took a long time reaching New England, but it arrived this week with the force of a cyclone and not even the warnings of mathematicians from Harvard University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology could stay it.
HOBOKEN, N.J., Jan. 14.--Herbert Hoover, former President of the United States, will be guest speaker at the dinner of the Alumni Association of Stevens Institute of Technology on Jan. 30 at the Hotel Astor in New York.
The St. John's College of Brooklyntennis team turned back Stevens Institute of Technology, 5 to 4, on the latter's courts in Hoboken yesterday.
To carry out Commerce Dept Indus Research and Development Div-sponsored project to improve metal powder indus techniques
CAMBRIDGE, Mass., April 8 -- Prof. Dirk J. Struik of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology termed "absolute nonsense" today the charges that he had preached a doctrine of the violent overthrow of the United States Government.
CAMBRIDGE, Mass., March 22 -- The first in a projected series of textbook publications prepared by the electrical engineering department of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, which has been in use since the beginning of the school year, is regarded here as a major contribution to the teaching of "basic principles" in electrical engineering and its allied subdivisions.
S on application of scientists methods to soc and Govt problems, Stevens Inst of Tech; gets hon degree
BOSTON, Nov. 12.--The University of Maine won the New England intercollegiate cross-country championship today from a field of eleven colleges. Massachusetts Institute of Technology was second and Bates College third.
Retires from Army to accept apptmt as associate prof of business at Massachusetts Inst of Technology
T C Desmond, Pres of Technology Club, blames it for part of financial trouble of N Y C clubs
PORT WASHINGTON, L.I., Oct. 27--Mr. and Mrs. T. Colburn Davis have made known the engagement of their daughter, Helen, to Dr. Herbert C. Wohlers, son of Mr. and Mrs. Herbert W. Wohlers of Bronxville, N.Y. Miss Davis was graduated from Sweet Briar College last June. Dr. Wohlers is an alumnus of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
BOSTON, Feb. 1.--The Massachusetts Agricultural College hockey team defeated Massachusetts Institute at Technology tonight, 2 to 1.
CAMBRIDGE, Mass., May 9. -- Crews of four colleges, Harvard, Pennsylvania, Columbia and Massachusetts Institute of Technology had final workouts on the Charles River today in preparation for tomorrow's regatta. The crews worked up-river from the start of tomorrow's races in heavy rain and on rough water, conditions in the Charles River Basin, where the new mile sad three-quarters course is laid, making practice there impossible.
ROBERT HALLOWELL RICHARDS was the seventh student to register in the Massachusetts Institute of Technology when that school was first opened in 1865. In 1914, at the age of 70, he retired from the professorship of mining engineering, which he had held since 1873, and became professor emeritus.
Starting with a nucleus of sixtythree members less than two years ago, the Friends of the Library, an association at Massachusetts Institute of Technology, has expanded into a society of more than 250 members and is still growing.
The first annual Glasgow speaking contest for students at Stevens Institute of Technology will be held on April 13.
BOSTON, May 21. -- The all-round superiority of the Dartmouth track team and the individual work of Horrax of Williams were the features of the preliminary events, which opened on Technology Field to-day the twenty-third annual championship meeting of the New England Intercollegiate Athletic Association.
Louis Adolphe Martin Jr., Professor of Mechanics at Stevens Institute of Technology in Hoboken, died today in Newton Memorial Hospital after a long illness. He was 57 years old.
Ga School of Tech leases 9 blgs from Navy; Emory Univ to remove bldgs used by shipyard workers for use by students
Hydraulic laboratory of Calif Inst of Technology to test gear shifts for pumping equipment, Col River aqueduct
Scores R E Rogers's advice to Mass Inst of Technology seniors to be snobs to get forward
BOSTON, Aug. 31.--Boston broke a five-game Providence winning  streak on Technology Field today when they gave Providence its first defeat of the American League season. The score was 3 to 0.
Dr K T Compton takes in student and family to ease MIT student housing shortage, Cambridge
Frederick C. Field, a consulting engineer, died yesterday in Germantown Hospital. He was 62 years old. Born in Brooklyn, N. Y., he was graduated from Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1897 and served as a major in the Ordnance Department during the World War.
On U S educ system, s at dinner of N Y alumni of Carnegie Inst of Technology
HANOVER, N.H., Jan. 27.--The charge that Dartmouth committed a breach of faith which caused the breaking off of athletic relations between the Green and the Massachusetts Institution of Technology three weeks ago has been formally retracted by the Tech Athletic Council and an apology made to Dartmouth.
Charles H. Smith, prominent fire insurance man, died here today in his sixty-second year. He was a native of Charlestown, Mass.; a graduate of the Massachusetts Insti- H' tute of Technology and a member of the University Club of Boston.
The academic procession at the inauguration of Dr. Harvey Nathaniel Davis as third President of Stevens Institute of Technology, at Hoboken, on Nov. 23, will include more than forty Presidents of American col  leges and universities and representatives of many learned societies and educational foundations.
CAMBRIDGE, Mass., May 21. -- The first and second varsity crews from the University of Pennsylvania, Harvard and Massachusetts Institute of Technology, as well as their freshmen eights, will row on the Charles River tomorrow afternoon over the mile and three-quarters course.
E. F. Sullivan, 60-year-old director of the Kiltie Band of Carnegie Institute of Technology, died today, having burst a, blood vessel in his neck while blowing a horn yesterday at a rehearsal of one of his bands at Western Penitentiary.
BOSTON, April 1 -- Winston Churchill was cited tonight as "the Twentieth Century symbol of resistance to oppression," in receiving his newest title as honorary lecturer of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
NEW HAVEN, Conn., Feb. 5. -- Yale handily defeated the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 7 to 1, this afternoon at hockey on the courts of the New Haven Lawn Club. Yale led from the start, scoring her first three goals before Tech made its only score, Hearn shooting the puck between the posts after a pretty run and long drive.
The Stevens Institute of Technology basketball team opened its season by defeating the Stevens Alumni 31 to 24, in the William Hall Walker gymnasium in Hoboken last night.
NEW HAVEN, Conn., Feb. 16. -- The Yale wrestlers today defeated the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 27 -- 3. Captain Manderosian scored the only victory for the visitors when he received the referee's decision over Platt in the 126-pound class. The Yale men gained three falls.
R E Rogers advises Mass Inst of Technology seniors to be snobs to get ahead in world
H I Harriman holds technology justifies united support of internatl conventions and Fed and State legis
BOSTON, March 21.--Obert Sletten, Norwegian Consul here, asserted today that the removal by his Government of fifty or more men and women students sent here for study at Harvard, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and the New England Conservatory of Music to educational institutions in ...
Army defeated Massachusetts Institute of Technology in a well-played soccer game today, 4-2. Dessert and Odom starred for the cadets, scoring all of Army's goals between them.
TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES: Mr. Soekarno, the Indonesian President, must have been greatly dismayed to read in John R. Andu's letter concerning Indonesia that "such practical subjects as economics, technology and political science were conveniently left out of the curriculum" (of Dutch universities in the Indies).
Max Franklin Millikan, son of Dr. Robert A. Millikan, noted scientist, and Miss Jeanne MacBeth Thomson filed here today intentions to wed. The son of the executive head of California Institute of Technology will seek a Doctor's degree in economics at Yale University next Fall.
NEW HAVEN, Aug. 21. -- The Terry lectures for 1926-27 will be given at Yale University by Professor Robert A. Millikan, Ph. D., of the California Institute of Technology on Oct. 13, 14 and 15, and repeated in Bridgeport on Oct. 17, 18 and 19.
Harold D. Walker, Boston architect, died suddenly today at his home here in his fiftieth year. A native of Brookline, he was the son of the late C. Howard Walker and Mary Louise Huckins Walker. He was graduated from Harvard in 1909 and from Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1911.
Elisha Lee, Vice President of the Pennsylvania System, at a smoker of associated technology clubs at the Engineering Foundation last night, spoke in support of "the employe representation" plan of giving labor a voice in ...
BOSTON, May 11.--A final change in seating of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology varsity eight, in preparation for the race with Harvard on the Charles River basin Saturday, was announced by Coach Stevens today. The new order is that used in the race with the Navy crew two weeks ago.
The alma mater will go to the alumni instead of the alumni going to the alma mater at the reunion of graduates of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, which will be held at the Waldorf tomorrow and Saturday. Talking movies of the campus and lecture halls and of the students and instructors will bring the institution from Cambridge to New York for the convention.
CAMBRIDGE, Mass., Aug. 23 -- The Massachusetts Institute of Technology which pioneered in advanced education in the field of weather forecasting in this country announced today the creation of a separate department of meteorology in the graduate school and plans for the offering of basic courses in the undergraduate division.
Discovery of substitute announced by Dr C H Herty at Alumni meeting of Mass Inst of Technology
Miss Mary T. MacAlister, portrait painter and writer, died here at her home on Rittenhouse Square today. She was the daughter of the late James MacAlister, first president of Drexel Institute of Technology.
Device measures speed of thought and muscular response in emergency; developed at Mass Inst of Technology
WILLIAMSTOWN, Mass., April 25. -- Williams defeated the Massachusetts Institute of Technology team this afternoon at baseball by a score of 60 to 1. The game was uninteresting. Williams batted hard and ran bases well. The "Techs" were weak all around, and made inexcusable errors, making their ony run on an error.
BROOKLINE, Mass., Nov. 20. -- Led by T.S. Berna, Cornell's team easily won the intercollegiate cross-country championship over the Massachusetts Institute of Technology course from nine other colleges to-day. It was Cornell's eighth win in ten years. Technology was second with 88 points, as compared with Cornell's 22; Michigan was third, with 112 points, and Yale fourth, with 114 points.
Dr H Edgerton in cooperation with US Air Tech Service Command develops aerial camera for night photography
Mass Inst of Technology to permit girls to smoke at social events; banned at Goucher College
Plans for annual dinner in N Y C; chain of radio stations to broadcast program to 58 other alumni dinners
WILMINGTON, Del., Feb. 25-- The du Pont Company announced plans today to award more than twice as wany university and college fellowships this year as in 1945, because of a serious shortage in the chemical industry of chemists, physicists and engineers with advanced training.
BRONXVILLE, N.Y., Dec. 12.-- The Concordia Prep basketball team opened its 1931 campaign by halting the Cooper Union Institute of Technology junior varsity quintet, 34 to 21, tonight. Frey led Concordia's attack, tallying 14 points.
BOSTON, Dec. 12.--For the first time since the rule was adopted, the vote of the Executive Committee of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology Athletic Committee was required to elect a captain.
BOSTON, May 11.--Cornell's varsity crew showed the way to the finish line in tonight's race at a mile and three-quarters against the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Harvard in the Charles River basin.
internatl rubber technology conf meets, London; H Wilson (Brit) charges US synthetic rubber output increase deters natural rubber price rises
Decision in Govt suit for accounting allows gifts to Princeton Univ, Mass Inst of Technology, and Phila Textile School
Conference of the Harlem Committee of the United Parents Association, Metropolitan Baptist Church, 157 West 128th Street, 11 A. M. Annual dinner of the Class of '98, Stevens Institute of Technology, Hotel Astor, 5:30 P. M.
CLERMONT-FERRAND, France, Aug. 18.--Edmund Allen, who, under the auspices of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, is competing in the international gliding contests at Camp Mouillard, tried out a new machine today.
BOSTON, May 20 -- Dartmouth's fiveyear clutch on the New England intercollegiate athletic championship was not seriously threatened in the preliminary events of the annual meeting held on Technology Field in Brookline to-day The green team came off the field with seventeen men qualified, almost twice as many as any of the thirtten other colleges.
NEW LONDON, Conn., June 4 (AP) -- Harvard and the defending Massachusetts Institute of Technology crews qualified for the finals of the Intercollegiate Yacht Racing Association's McMillian Cup championship in the preliminary series of the 1944 competition on the Thames River today.
As a spur to Fall training Harvard track men will meet the Massachusetts Institute of Technology athletes in an informal track meet at Cambridge late this month. Prospects for a good track team at Harvard are strong.
CAMPBRIDGE, Mass., April 30. -Announcement of plans for the quadrangular regatta on the Charles a week from Saturday was made tonight by Scott Blanchard, manager of the Harvard crew. Varsity and junior varsity crews from Harvard, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cornell and Pennsylvania will compete.
Cooper Union will hold its seventyninth annual commencement Thursday night in the Great Hall of the Union, Fourth Avenue and Eighth Street. Degrees and certificates will be awarded to 128 graduates of the Institute of Technology, pay Art School,
Joseph Rich, 22 years old, a wounded soldier undergoing vocational training at the Newark Institute of Technology, was locked up in Newark yesterday on ...
CAMBRIDGE, Mass., Jan. 5.--The Massachusetts Institute of Technology has broken off athletic relations with Dartmouth College. This action was taken at a meeting of the Tech Advisory Council on Athletics recently, but did not...
Brown defeated the Massachusetts institute of Technology team in a hockey game tonight by 4 to 3. Bunny Fletcher scored the winning goal for Brown less than tree from the end of the game.
CAMBRIDGE, Mass., May 19.--This afternoon, for the first time since 1914 the Massachusetts Institute Technology track team won the annual New Englan intercollegiate track and field championship. Because of the war only eight of the seventeen colleges holding membership in the association sent teams...
The $1,000 Fisher Award in Analytical Chemistry will be given to Dr. G. E. F. Lundell, who retired last year as chief of the chemistry division, National Bureau of Standards, it was announced yesterday. The presentation will be made on Sept. 19 at the national meeting of the American Chemical Society in Atlantic City, N. J., by Prof. Linus Pauling of the California Institute of Technology, who is president of the society.
BOSTON, Mass., Nov. 13.--Massachusetts Institute of Technology won the annual New England intercollegiate cross-county run held this morning over the Franklin Field course, with ...
CAMBRIDGE, Mass., May 8 (AP) -- Massachusetts Institute of Technology led Harvard by three points tonight at the end of the first day of racing in the seventh annual national dinghy championships of the Intercollegiate Yacht Racing Association held on the Charles River, under the auspices of the M.I.T. Nautical Association.
CAMBRIDGE, ,Mass., May 22.--Massachusetts Institute of Technology, with 33 points, won the annual New England intercollegiate championship track and field meeting here today. The events were run off. In a downpour of rain.
Sen Davis presents W R Hearst trophy and medals to members of R O T C rifle team
Poland charges French envoys hired spies for sabotage; names A de Brossin de Mere as chief plotter; trial of 6, including 4 French, opens, Wroclaw; names
W C Planz assails removal of price curbs; notes effect on US mils and world market
Prime Min Attlee urges indus to increase exports to US and Canada; H Wilson approves, Commons
ECA welcomes delegation for US tour, NYC; Textile Workers Union dir S Barkin holds Brit mills are not over 10-yrs behind those in US
R T Fisher sees demand outstripping supply; notes Brit and other currency devaluation effect on US indus
Cotton Textile Inst repts sheeting to be used to line Los Angeles reservoir; use seen new market
Sen Hill labeling bill opposed by NY textile merchants assn pres W R Bell and others, Sen subcom
US C of C opposes Fed grading measure, lr to Sen Interstate & Foreign Commerce Com
Cotton Textile Inst survey shows mills bear most of fabrics price drop; repts mill activity down 32% since Jan, '48
Industrial design, ed on projected exhibition by former and present pupils of Royal College of Art in London
In manufacturing New York City leads the entire United States. Its annual products are valued at more than $5,324,413,612. This sum nearly equals the combined amount of manufactured goods in Chicago and Philadelphia combined.
PITTSBURGH, Pa., Jan. 25.--An antigerm solution known as hyclorite, which is said to be eight times stronger than the Dakins solution used with success ...
Wilson informs com on manufacture and trade in arms and munitions that U S is constitutionally unable to suppress or supervise private manufacture
BOSTON, Mass., Nov. 23.--Among the sales of industrial stocks in Boston this week were the following:
BOSTON, Mass., Nov. 17.--Among the sales of manufacturing stocks in Boston this week were the following:
The annual report of the Secretary of Commerce, published today, makes the customary review of industrial and financial conditions in the United States during the past fiscal year. It furnishes the proofs ...
Special com adopts report confessing inability to agree on draft treaty for supervision of private manufacture of arms
Frederic T. Trump, president of the Royal Manufacturing Company of Duquesne, Pa., and Karl F. Milde, vice president of American Druggists Syndicate, Inc., have...
According to the ever suggestive Bureau of Statistics the exports of our manufactures in 1906 exceeded $700,000,000, and constituted 42 per cent. of our total exports. Within ten years this class of exports has expanded in volume three and a half times, but other exports have also so increased that this multiplied growth of manufactures is but one-third greater than in 1896.
There is a certain incongruity between the maintenance of a Bureau of Manufactures for the express purpose of promoting foreign trade and the maintenance of an exorbitant system of tariff taxation for the purpose of discouraging and preventing foreign trade. But the fact means something more than the confusion of mind and motive which it implies.
The mere business of sermon-making -- uninterrupted by other concerns -- would be enough to stagger any conscientious literary craftsman. To write one address each week, and, allowing for two months' vacation, one has produced three volumes a year. Relying wholly upon manuscript, as some clergymen do, one will achieve an annual output of six volumes.
WASHINGTON, Feb. 10. -- The text of the code of fair competition for the cigarette, snuff, chewing ad smoking tobacco manufacturing industry, the approval of which by President Roosevelt was announced today, follows:
From Chambers's Journal. Many Industries are begun in Spain; but the home manufactures are never perfected, or they are only perfected in other countries. For example, in Barcelona, the most flourishing commercial centre in Spain, cotton goods are extensively manufactured.
To facilitate the expansion of its manufacturing activities, Press Wireless, Inc., has organized a subsidiary, the Press Wireless Manufacturing Corporation, it was announced yesterday by A. Warren Norton, president...
As evidence of the development of manufacturing interests, the following from the current number of Paper is both interesting and significant:
Manufacturing activity, as measured by the total number of man-hours worked, increased 3.3 per cent in November compared with October, according to the monthly survey of the National Industrial Conference Board.
A well-known ironmaster of the Cumberland district has published a report which will be read with interest at home, and we venture to say without consternation in this country. He is convinced that there is no place in the world better situated for ironmaking than the Middlesborough district, and that the furnace owners of that favored locality do not need to fear competition if they will utilize their advantages.
No important changes in the condition of trade among the dealers in and manufacturers of machinery are to be seen, writes a Chicago authority in discussing Western industrial affairs. Weather conditions have not affected the leading manufacturers whose establishments are in the Chicago district.
Despite the advanced stage of the current wholesale season for manufacturued furs, sellers of these goods report no great falling off in the demand for them. Coats continue in liberal demand, and the call for sets is by no means small. Separate scarfs and muffs also are selling.
The change that is going on in the production of motive power for the railroads is exemplified in the report of the Department of Commerce of locomotive production in October. This statement shows that of 268 locomotives on order then, 125 were to be driven by ...
TEL AVIV, Israel, Oct. 31 -- Israeli authorities disclosed today that a "great industrial center" for the manufacture of a wide variety of consumer goods was being planned for Rehoboth, a town near Tel Aviv. Construction of the first plant, which will employ several thousand persons, already has begun.
Bridge Builders' Combination; Rail Contracts with Russia Showing Tariff Law to be a Farce; Ship Building Subsidy Legislation Ridiculed
Not only is Japan now manufacturing many things which it used to buy from Europe, but, having satisfied its own requirements, is beginning to export. Five years ago there was a great trade in matches to the East. Not only does Japan now supply herself and supply China, but she supplies the Straits Settlements and India, and sends large quantities even to Australia.
WARSAW, N.Y., March 9.--The Pearl Salt Company filed articles of incorporation today. They intend to manufacture salt at Pearl Creek, on the Rochester and Pittsburg Railroad. The capital stock is $40,000. The four incorporators constitute the Board of Trustees.
From The Gentleman's Magazine. Commercial intercourse with foreign countries was discouraged by the imposition of heavy customs duties, the false political economy of the day teaching that heavy importations from abroad would drain the country of money, and thereby reduce it to a state of insolvency.
Andrew Wesley Kent, William G. Mitchell, George W. Palmer, George Steel, Louis Rosenfeld, and Henry Rosener are the incorporators of the American Standard Ordnance Company, whose certificate of incorporation...
The Hendee Manufacturing Company for the year ended Aug. 31, 1921, reports a net loss from operations of $912,678, compared with net profits of $759,914 in the previous year.
Each picking of a  garden is in India called a "break" and in China a "chop." But an Indian "break" is rarely above a hundred chests, and is often only twenty, and it is absolutely even in quality throughout, whereas a Chinese...
The Mullins Manufacturing Corporation has declared a. stock dividend of 100 per cent on the Class B common stock. On April 27 last the stockholders authorized the directors to declare the dividend in a recapitalization plan.
TOKYO, Sept. 26 (AP)--Happy news for Japanese sports fans is announcement of a Government "go ahead" for the manufacture of baseballs.
The dried  grapes most largely employed in the manufacture are those of Corinth; in plain English, the best currants vended by grocers and used by housekeepers for the confection of cakes and puddings.
GOVERNMENT aid to civil aeronautics has made development in Italy, rapid. In addition to  cash subsidies generally based on the number of kilometers flown, the government grants the free use of government flying fields, free use of hangar space, meteorological service, ...
PLAINFIELD, N.J., Jan. 1 -- The scarcity of natural ice in late years, and the poor prospects of a crop this season, have resulted in the organization of a stock company to erect a plant for the manufacture of the artificial product. The chief stockholder in the enterprise is exSenator Aaron D. Thompson, a wealthy stock raiser.
Not  the least interesting of many curious features connected with the production and consumption of certain poisons is the extraordinary quantities that are in some instances manufactured.
Bldg plant to mfr turbines and ship gears; RFC subsidiary advances funds for plant; staff changes
John C. Dolph, a pioneer in the manufacture of insulating varnishes for the electrical industry, died yesterday in his home at 569 Mount Prospect Avenue, here, after a long illness. He was 72 years old. He was president of the John C. Dolph Company of Newark, a business he founded here twenty-five years ago.
Partly as a result of its incursion into manufacturing in this country, the International Telephone and Telegraph. Corporation reported yesterday a net income of $73,760 in the first six months of 1941, against a net loss of $126,977 in the same period last year.
The various campaigns waged against tobacco in the last year had little effect on the production and consumption of the "weed" in this country. The enormous number of 62,000,000,000 cigarettes were produced in this country in 1920, of which 46,000,000,000 were consumed ...
CLEVELAND, Ohio, Dec. 17.--The Common Council this evening passed an ordinance allowing the wealthy firm of Swiss  German to convert the old McNairy  Claflin bridge and car works into a chemical manufactory for the conversion of a certain ...
TRETON, N.J., Sept. 20. -- A petition in bankruptcy was flied in the United States court here to-day by the Newark Automobile Manufacturing Company. The firm places its debts at $23,357,98, and its assets at $21,560,93.
Her Majest being now ready to receive us, we were ushered into her presenece one at a time. My turn was the twelfth; hence one of my friends has dubbed me the Twelfth Knight. The equerry took me to the door of the apartment, and then left me. It was a lofty room, but not very large, being perhaps forty feet long and of a corresponding width.
There are whole streets devoted to shops where images of the saints and martyrs, Bambinos and Madonnas, are made and sold. The quantity of these objects is so great that I should think every worshipper in Naples must possess at least a dozen. The tastes and purses of all classes are consulted.
The majority of us have had the experience of entering a Subway train feeling fresh, full of vigor, and emerging from the same train in a few minutes feeling stupid and depressed. This is simply due to the fact that we have been breathing, over and over again, air far too low in oxygen to be of proper use to our lungs, and at the same time containing tremendous quantities of bacteria in suspension.
Japanese at Conf Bur demand ban on poison gas and on material for defense against gas
The Hon. John L. Blake, in a letter to the Hon. James A. Garfield, gives the following interesting information concerning the manufacture of pottery in this country: "The industry is one of comparatively recent origin in this country. Porce  lain clay was discovered in Vermont in 1810, and, in 1825, porcelain ware was first made, in the City of Philadelphia, from kaolin, found in Chester ...
Mr. White's letter in this morning's TIMES on the above subject makes the mistake common in tariff discussions of overlooking entirely the wage cost of the articles which he makes. He gives us the wages paid per day, but he fails to give us the proportion which the wages paid bear to the value of the product.
Gross revenues of manufactured and natural gas companies for the eleven months to Nov. 30, 1936, totaled $700,835,800, against $660,602,500 correspondingly in 1935, an increase of 6.1 per cent, according to the American Gas Association.
--Though the  old hand manufactures of India are dying out, they are being replaced by the improved methods of European manufactures.
MINNEAPOLIS, Minn., July 21.--The Northwestern Miller says: "The mills made a heavy increase in the production last week, the total output of flour being 145,800 barrels, averaging 24,300 barrels daily, against 121,830 barrale the preceding week and 46,140 barrels in ...
One of the most encouraging things about the outlook for the general revival of business are the announcements that appear weekly in the trade journals of all classes of the proposed extensions of existing manufacturing establishments and propositions to build new ones. Ample capital can be had, and that the new factories are building, or in a way to be built, is proof positive that there is faith in the future.
TROY, N.Y., Aug. 12.--At Granville the roofing slate already manufactured is amply sufficient to supply the demand for a year to come. The prospects are that part or all of the mills will stop the manufacture of slate soon until there is a demand for it.
Sterling Drug Inc repts nausea-causing irritant found; precautions to prevent recurrence devised; mfg to be resumed
Sued by 5 cos on charge of monopoly in mfr of tubing and jackets for elec lamps
It is a little difficult to understand what can be the object in the policy pursued by some of the Republican papers just now of attributing all the depression that exists in manufacturing business to the election of Mr. CLEVELAND.
The cotton mills at Biddeford, employing 3,200 hands, have been running on full time the past year and no cut-down is contemplated.
Bradford is the centre of a great cordon of manufacturing towns and villages. Among the busy cities of the outor circle in the centre of which Bradford may be said to lie spinning and weaving her miles of fabrics, are Halifax, Keighley, Wakefield, Dewsbury, Huddenfield, and Leeds. The hum of trade breaks in upon the ...
EASTON, Penn., Jan. 28.--The American sheet mill in Phillipsburg, N.J., resumed work yesterday, after being idle since Christmas. The works employ 125 men. The old mill of the Bethlehem Iron Company started up yesterday. The steel mill is busy on an order for 72-pound rails for a road in Massachusetts.
WASHINGTON, March 23.--A permit to manufacture wine out of strawberries for non-beverage purposes was issued tonight to the Strawberry Growers' Association of Louisiana by the Bureau of Internal Revenue.
The Krieger Steel Sections Company of Long Island City has leased the two-story building at 76 Crown Street, in Brooklyn, for a warehouse through the Brevoort Management Company, which rented to the same concern 16,000 square feet in 344 St. Marks Avenue.
PITTSBURG, Penn., Nov. 22.--A new process in the manufacture of low carbon Bessemer steel was put into operation to-day at the Bessmer Steel Works at Homestead, which, if sucessful, will completely do away with the work of puddling. A number of puddlers from various mills were present during the experiments and watches the result with great interest.
EASTON, Penn., Sept. 28.--At a meeting of the Pennsylvania School Slate Association held here yesterday it was ordered that all the manufacturers shall stop the production for 60 days.
6 firms in Lancashire, Eng, reptd to have started toward amalgamation, A Lees Ltd, Brook & Doxey Ltd, Dobson & Barrow Ltd, Howard & Bullock, Ltd, J Hetherington, Ltd and Platt Bros Ltd
A corporation to be known as the American Electric Arms and Ammunition Company has been formed by George B. Satterlee, of NewYork; William H. Barbour, of New-York, and James S, Merriam, of New-York, who, with ...
PITTSBURG, Penn., Nov. 30.--The general feeling among business men is daily growing more hopeful. Some large orders for railroad supplies were placed last week with manufacturers, and bids for others have been asked for. The feeling among iron men is decidedly better on account of the receipts of fair orders for the product of their mills.
ALBANY, N.Y., Feb. 12.--The Papermakers' Association of this State has decided, if the consent of 80 per cent. of the manufacturers of light and heavy wrapping paper is obtained, to request all mills in the State to shut down for three months from April 1.
We have already called attention to the injustice and the folly of treating the tariff entirely from the political point of view.
Many attempts have been made to manufacture in the United States some varieties of foreign cheese, of which 63,000,000 pounds were imported by this country in 1914. Success has attended the making of some of these kinds of cheese. Attempts to make others have resulted in absolute failure.
WASHINGTON, Oct. 20.--Prohibition Commissioner Haynes plans to leave tomorrow for a survey of the liquor situation in Kentucky, it was said today at prohibition headquarters.
Automotive Engineers Soc rept on application of metal in auto engines mfg discussed; soc spokesmen comment
The census bulletin, which gives the statistics of manufactures in twenty principal cities of the Union, shows that the people of New-York do something besides buy and sell. This is now the most important manufacturing city in the country.
CINCINNATI, 11.--Advance sheets of the annual report of the Board of Trade were furnished to the press to-day. It shows that the total product of the manufacturers of the city for the ...
The Association for the Total Suppres  sion of White Hats! The Anti-Flower-in-theButton-Hole League! The Society for the Abolition of Green Tea Drinking! The Association for the Restriction of GloveFastenings to one Button!
Files damage suit against Corn Industries Research Foundation and member firms, charging monopoly in glucose manufacture and interference with process superseding glucose use
TORONTO, Ontario, Dec. 14.--Messrs. Collins and Worthington, representing American capitalists, waited upon Sir Leonard Tilley today, to confer with him regarding additional protection to the manufacturers of iron.
we  have recently learned from the Chancellor of the Exchequer that the consumption of coffee in this country is gradually falling off, and although he attributes this to the rivalry of cocoa, there is clearly another...
Gen Walch, head of Interallied Military Control Comm, confers with officials in Berlin on mfr and export
Siam will soon have an experimental paper mill made in America with equipment recommended by the United States Bureau of Standards, according to an ...
AMONG all the products of the sea the pearl is pre-eminent for natural beauty, and rivals in splendor and value the choicest gems of the earth. Unlike the latter, it requires no aid from art to reveal its beauty and lustre, and doubtless for this reason it met with highest favor among the ancients.
While business failures showed increases in both the manufacturing and wholesale divisions in the week ended March 25 as compared with the previous week, there was a decline from 123 to 107 in the retail group, according to the report issued yesterday by Dun  Bradstreet, Inc.
George McCurrach, of 234 Garfield Place, Brooklyn, formerly for fifty years associated with the neckwear manufacturing firm of James McCurrach  Bros., died on Wednesday in the Methodist Episcopal Hospital after an operation.
Mrs. Katherine Claggett, 57 years old, of 400 West Fifty-seventh Street, died yesterday in her apartment with Miss Ruth Kay, her nurse, in attendance. She had been ailing for several years.
Business failures increased in the manufacturing and wholesale divisions last week, in comparison with the previous week, but there was a decline in the retail group, according to a compilation issued yesterday by Dun  Bradstreet, Inc.
BIRMINGHAM, Ala., Dec. 31. -- William Halls, Jr., Vice President of the Hanover National Bank of New York, and Vice President of the Birmingham Realty Company, upon a very recent visit to this city, remarked that the Birmingham district was better fortified than most of the other sections of the country against the fluctuations of trade that have become sources of embarrassment during the past few months, especially with regard to iron and steel.
While business failures increased in the retail and manufacturing divisions in the week ended April 29, as compared with the previous week, there was a decline in the building group, according to the report issued yesterday by Dun  Bradstreet, Inc. The detailed report is as follows:
Putting an art director in charge of its work is an innovation which has been made recently by a big silver manufacturing firm which has a world-wide reputation. This firm has been endeavoring for years to educate the public and to make it understand that there are
BACK in those carefree days of fifty years ago when eligibility rules were generally ignored, there was a 16-year-old youngster  named Johnny Brailler who served as quarterback for the Indiana (Pa.) High School team on weekdays and for Indiana Normal College on Saturdays. And the near-by Latrobe Y.M.C.A.
A loft property and three garage buildings in Brooklyn changed hands in deals announced over the week-end by the Brevoort Management Company, broker in the transactions.
Warren Howland Jones of 51 Sycamore Avenue, secretary of the Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company, with an office at 150 Broadway, Manhattan, died this afternoon in the Mount Vernon Hospital, after a week's illness of pneumonia, at the age of 61. His widow, the former Agnes Wetten, survives.
CHICAGO, Sept. 21. -- The opening of the public schools brought a good increase in retail business, although by comparison with 1934 the average for the large Loop department stores was somewhat lower where no special sales events were featured.
Isidor B. Geller, operator, bought for the Riverside Drive Corporation a six-story apartment house at 94-18 Thirty-fourth Road, Jackson Heights, from the Teachers' Retirement System. The forty-two suites are all rented. The parcel was bought for all cash above a $162,000 first mortgage for five years, with interest at 4 per cent for two years and 4 1/2 per cent for the last three years, Andrew N. Geller, attorney for the buyer, reported.
Laurence C. Gardner, Secretary of the National Jewelers' Board of Trade, has made public a letter received from Joseph H. Hamlin, Secretary to the Acting Chairman of the American Red Cross, in which is given an excerpt from the law covering the use of the emblem by perssons other than the Red Cross or its authorized employee or agents.
One hundred and twenty-five fur coats, valued at more than $1,000,000, will be displayed on Wednesday and Thursday nights at the Fur Fashion Show at the WaldorfAstoria Hotel, under the auspices of the Associated Fur Coat and Trimming Manufacturers Association.
The Commercial Bulletin will say tombrrow: "The wool market continues very quiet. Semi-occasional sales are reported here and there but for small quantities and the surface indications are that the market is weaker.
A little comment anent the letter of Mr. George C. Potter of Johnstown, N.Y., in your Sunday edition, so admirably answered by you editorially. This gentleman and his partner not many years ago were road glove salesmen like the writer and effusive in their complaints of manufacturers in general who always "want it all" and the employee to be given "nothing," ,
Fewer manufacturers and wholesalers in the metropolitan area reported sales increases this week as compared with the number last week, according to the report prepared especially for THE TIMES by the New York Credit Men's Association, under the direction of John F. Otis, assistant secretary.
It is generally supposed that the evil worked by our present extravagant tariff is confined to the consumers, so-called, that is to say, to those not engaged in manufactures.
Seeking the actual causes of the present price levels of basic building materials and their relation to the present stagnation in the building construction industry the impartial investigator unwittingly upsets some of the popular fancies of the day.
The Legal Protective Association of Cigar Manufacturers of the city of New-York met at the Fifth-Avenue Hotel last evening for ...
N. Y. financiers have acquired patent rights to British invention of triplex glass for war uses
Improving the condition of domestic servants by giving them the eight-hour day and the six-day week is not a new proposition, although the Scientific Housekeeping lunch
Last week many women, a large proportion of them leaders in politics, employment organizations of national importance and educational
Mrs. HAVELOCK ELLIS of London makes a fresh contribution to the servant problem by proposing a State-conducted domestic service, with branches in every town and village, to provide trained helpers "at any hour and varying prices for all the homes in England.'' The one condition which the
Warnings in plenty have been given to the authorities of this city that its credit is not what it has been or ought to be. The decline in the price of city bonds shows what investors and trustees are thinking. Some time ago formal notice was served by the bankers to whom the Controller had applied for a loan that further advances of money would depend upon severe retrenchment in municipal expenditures.
THERE has been a curious reversal in public taste of late as  regards the wearing of liveries. To dress a servant in an elaborate livery, with bright colors  and shining buttons, has been generally thought to be artificial and unAmerican.
With the retirement of Dr. Amos O. Squire as medical examiner of Westchester, a public servant of exceptional abilities has been lost to the county. His work continued for so many years that it was taken for granted by many persons; his retirement is revealing the difficulty of replacing him.
It is something of a shock to learn that "young" John D. Rockefeller, having reached the retiring age of 65, is relinquishing the chairmanship of the Board of Trustees of the Rockefeller Foundation. The Rockefeller money has been used the world over to advance human health and happiness.
Ten thousand private physicians of Greater New York are uniting for an intensive campaign to educate the public to keep its health. They are living proof of the statement made some years ago by Dr. HARVEY CUSHING: "It has been a seeming ...
There is another side to the effort of President HOOVER, upon which we briefly commented yesterday, to draw men of high ability into the work of his administration.
In his speech at the dedication of the monument commemorating the completion of a nine-foot channel for the Ohio River, Mr. HOOVER
USES met area dir M J Tierney blames workers shortage on restricted immigration quotas; shortage discussed on radio forum
When ABRAM S. HEWITT retired as Mayor of New York, he stated that for whatever he had done well in office he got never a word of thanks. But for what he did ill, or was thought to have done ill, he received no end of reproaches.
"The Purple Highway," the feature this week at the Rialto, was adapted from the whimsical play "Dear Me." Hery Kolker, the director of the film, has saturated his work with fantastic motion picture ideas and eliminated everything that appealed in the stage play.One leaves the theatre Just after having seen April, who has scored a marvelous success as a singer, running in her black velvet skirt and white bodicewhich looked very well on the stageto watch the man she loves, who has just left his yacht. He believes" that his affection is unrequited, as he had seen her in another man's arms.To catch the vessel they quickly engage a motor launch, which overtakes the other craft, and while still cutting through the water the orchestra leader and April (Madge Kennedy) clamber up the gangway, and in a cabin that might be aboard the Leviathan April tells Edgar Prentice that she loves him. It is all so silly after what one hoped for in the adaptation of the play, and also utterly unexpected, even though the producers saw fit to change the title.In another sequence Kolker again indulges his fancy. Dudley Quail is infatuated with April, which is perfectly obvious to all those who see the photoplay, but in order to impress upon her the extent of his love Dudley, who is foolishly wealthy, gives a special party for the girl who was once a drudge in the home for aged artists. He has special fireworks blazing her name in the skies, a troupe of dancers, and then a squad of flying girls, one of whom swings on a rope from balcony to balcony with a jeweled headdress as a gift for the guest of the evening. No wonder April remarked that "it's wonderfuland all for me." It would have been wonderful to anybody. It was a party that only a motion picture director would have given.Monte Blue plays the part of Edgar Prentice, the young man whose father started the home for failures. Mr. Blue sits or stands gazing with a woebegone, forlorn expression at April, and one is relieved when he is off the screen. Most of the acting is extremely poor, and it is irritating to see pictured on the screen the obvious fact that a manager has taken the play written by Prentice and then read a title saying:"You mean our play has been accepted?"Everybody in the audience knows that the play has been accepted and everybody thinks that Prentice ought to have known this long before the title appears. There are a number of other instances where the acting is the old-fashioned type of picture ideas. Leaning on a mantlepiece under an oil painting of the older Prentice is frequently done, and all the players are carrying out the instructions of the director, as to where to stand, how to look, where to put their arms and to look lovesick, or their idea of such an expression.At the outset it seems as if the voice behind this picture was going to let the play run as it did on the stage. There is the landlady, an ogre to April, and there are the failuresmusicians, writers, artists and so forth. But Mr. Kolker soon gets away from such simple ideas and bursts forth to show what the screen can do to a play. He shows it with a vengeance.Miss Kennedy appears as if she knew that this production was going to develop on the serial idea rather than a play in which careful characterization was necessary."The Purple Highway," the feature this week at the Rialto, was adapted from the whimsical play "Dear Me." Hery Kolker, the director of the film, has saturated his work with fantastic motion picture ideas and eliminated everything that appealed in the stage play.One leaves the theatre Just after having seen April, who has scored a marvelous success as a singer, running in her black velvet skirt and white bodicewhich looked very well on the stageto watch the man she loves, who has just left his yacht. He believes" that his affection is unrequited, as he had seen her in another man's arms.To catch the vessel they quickly engage a motor launch, which overtakes the other craft, and while still cutting through the water the orchestra leader and April (Madge Kennedy) clamber up the gangway, and in a cabin that might be aboard the Leviathan April tells Edgar Prentice that she loves him. It is all so silly after what one hoped for in the adaptation of the play, and also utterly unexpected, even though the producers saw fit to change the title.In another sequence Kolker again indulges his fancy. Dudley Quail is infatuated with April, which is perfectly obvious to all those who see the photoplay, but in order to impress upon her the extent of his love Dudley, who is foolishly wealthy, gives a special party for the girl who was once a drudge in the home for aged artists. He has special fireworks blazing her name in the skies, a troupe of dancers, and then a squad of flying girls, one of whom swings on a rope from balcony to balcony with a jeweled headdress as a gift for the guest of the evening. No wonder April remarked that "it's wonderfuland all for me." It would have been wonderful to anybody. It was a party that only a motion picture director would have given.Monte Blue plays the part of Edgar Prentice, the young man whose father started the home for failures. Mr. Blue sits or stands gazing with a woebegone, forlorn expression at April, and one is relieved when he is off the screen. Most of the acting is extremely poor, and it is irritating to see pictured on the screen the obvious fact that a manager has taken the play written by Prentice and then read a title saying:"You mean our play has been accepted?"Everybody in the audience knows that the play has been accepted and everybody thinks that Prentice ought to have known this long before the title appears. There are a number of other instances where the acting is the old-fashioned type of picture ideas. Leaning on a mantlepiece under an oil painting of the older Prentice is frequently done, and all the players are carrying out the instructions of the director, as to where to stand, how to look, where to put their arms and to look lovesick, or their idea of such an expression.At the outset it seems as if the voice behind this picture was going to let the play run as it did on the stage. There is the landlady, an ogre to April, and there are the failuresmusicians, writers, artists and so forth. But Mr. Kolker soon gets away from such simple ideas and bursts forth to show what the screen can do to a play. He shows it with a vengeance.Miss Kennedy appears as if she knew that this production was going to develop on the serial idea rather than a play in which careful characterization was necessary.
The class of servants in apartment houses has so deteriorated and thefts have become so frequent that companies have had to change their estimates of risk involved in policies covering these classes of insurance.
I have read the "servant question" these last three Sundays with great interest, and, although I doubt much that my opinion will be found worth your notice I cannot resist from giving it.
It would be hard to find a more thorough American, a man who did more for Americanization or who illustrated better the best qualities of American character and public service, than FRANKLIN K. LANE, who happened to be born in Canada.
SOME months ago I discussed with a friend the old, old  problem of the girl without money and out of a job. "It's all very well for you to talk about girls being able to keep straight if they want to," said the friend, "but...
GETTING a white servant for a Chinese family is vastly different from getting a Chinese servant for a white family," said the employment agent. "It is a good deal harder.
ABOARD THE STEAMSHIP LEVIATHAN, Oct. 17 (AP). -- Queen Marie's last day at sea was a quiet and restful one in preparation for tomorrow's reception in New York. The royal apartments, however, were in a state of considerable confusion as the servants had the corridors piled high with 160 trunks, boxes and bags which must be unloaded at Quarantine early in the morning.
To the Editor of The New York Times: In your valuable paper of Jan. 6 we noticed, under the above heading, a more sensibly written article than usually appears upon this vexed question. As the "so-called question" is put in the form of an ever-present difficulty to those who employ servants, might they not try a very simple remedy, which we will suggest?
Royal servant accused of espionage; discharged; held; alleged to have reptd to Gers on King Christian's illness and other events
Whatever may be the defects or peculiarities of public life in the Sahara, it seems to be free from that insolence of elected persons which sometimes annoys the untitled citizens of the Great American Desert.
It should be remembered in the first place that servants are not superior to the rest of humanity, and that gratitude is a rare virtue and generally short lived. A servant -- or anybody else -- may feel grateful at the time of receiving a kindness, but you cannot expect him or her to go on feeling grateful forever, which is, I gather, what people generally expect.
SANDRINGHAM, England, Sunday, Jan. 19. -- King George was sleeping peacefully at an early hour this morning.
All-India States Peoples Conf urges end of landlord system; attacks alleged mistreatment of pol prisoners; other resolutions
NYS Council of Amer Fed of State, County and Munic Employes urges Pub Servants Wk observance
AT a small dinner given recently in Washington by a Western Senator and his wife, the conversation, toward dessert, turned on the servant problem, and one of the guests announced she had determined to employ Chinese servants.
Evangelical League of Civil Servants voluntarily disbands; congratulated by Min Frick for recognizing untimeliness of confessional division
From The Indianapolis Sentinel. It is one thing to get a good servant and another to keep her. A lady living on North Pennsylvania Street was amazed to have a strange lady ring the bell and inquire if her servant was at home.
AN INCIDENT in one of David Lloyd George's visits to Switzerland, while he was still Prime Minister of Great Britain, has become classic. At a certain station, where his train was to stop for a few minutes, he was awaited by a State Councilor of the Confederation, attended by a servant, who carried a large basket of grapes, to be presented to the distinguished visitor.
In proceedings for legal separation or a man and wife, now pending in one of the local courts, one of the allegations of the aggrieved husband, and altogether the strongest of those embodied in his affidavit, is that the wife insisted upon retaining a singing servant girl in the house and that her singing established conditions which were intolerable.
Natl Fed of Communal Civil Servants demands rescinding of law equalizing salaries paid by communities and municipalities and Federal Govt
To the Editors of The New York Times: After all that has been said on the servant girl question, I suppose there is no excuse for reopening the subject unless one has something new to contribute. My letler is simply an appeal for information which some experienced TIMES reader will Perhaps be able to supply.
My living costs me nothing, and my books and papers cost me nothing, and I read every night But Wednesday, when my beau conies, and Thursdays and Sundays, when I go out. On the Sunday when I am home I read the papers almost all day, that is when my work is done in the evening.
I have read with interest the correspondence that has taken place in your columns upon the domestic problem, and would be glad if you will afford me space for a few remarks. I have been twenty years in service, twelve of which were spent in working my way from page to butler.
A recent publication of the United States Geological Survey on Power Capacity and Production in the United States states that every person in this country has today the equivalent of about "sixty servants in constant attendance."
SHE had experienced the common agonies in grappling with the "servant question," and now that the family had finally moved from the metropolis to New Jersey these had multiplied, of course, many fold. For few and far between, indeed, are the damsels of domesticity who will "take a place over the ferry."
Canton merchants receive assurance from govt hqrs that their privilege of discharging superfluous employes at New Year will be restored
Butler's asst in U S Consul Gen's household ordered interned in one of new concentration camps for Nazis
In the letter you were kind enough to publish the writer pleaded for the creation of a new profession -- that of civil servant to the State. This profession should, of course, run on parallel lines with the military and naval services, and be equally under the auspices of the Government.
From The Anglo-American Magazine. For a few weeks we went without servants. By and by Okomoto appeared against the horizon. He had cooked for several families -- he named them on his fingers. We took him in, and such another specimen of Oriental sin never set foot in kitchen. His impudence was sublime, but at last the Junior Partner asserted her independence and Okomoto disappeared.
To the Editor of The New York Times: I have read with a great deal of interest the symposium in to-day's TIMES on the application of the eight-hour rule to the question of domestic service. A great many people will certainly indorse the views of Miss Dodge and others as to the practicability of such a proposition as this in the present state of social development.
To the Editor of The New York Times: I read in your paper of April 2 the communication of "G.A.B." of Summit. In my opinion, "G.A.B." is talking through her hat. Her comprehension must be very limited, when she asserts that it seems incredible to her to find a grammatically accomplished girl at housework.
To the Editor of The New York Times: We hear and know of many plans, well-contrived and executed for the benefit of workingmen and women, boys and girls, for their relief, comfort, or amusement, and it is conceded by all that such work is good.
According to a recent bulletin of the Census Bureau, the total number of employes in the civil service of the United States is 286,902. This is almost exactly five times the number of men in our so-called army, and about three times as many as in the army and navy combined.
family of Mrs M Spillane inherits $40,000 under will of her employer, Mrs Mary N Putnam
IT is all very well, on the face of it, to get a cook from a private employment agency; but, for all the mistress knows, the cook may have  entered into a definite agreement with the agency to "get herself fired" within three weeks.
BEFORE another month is over there may be a sale of cooks.  Even now a cook may be had almost to your taste--if you'll shop around for her. Shopping for her, by the way, is better the first of the week. "They get sort of picked over by Friday," aplogizes an employment agent.
The pleading of Secretary BONAPARTE for higher salaries in the higher Federal posts is a sound one, though it does not follow, nor does he argue, that the salaries would have to be as high as those paid in private life, or as great as the incomes to be obtained in the professions by such men as Mr. ROOT or himself.
This current week has witnessed the introduction in the Canadian Parliament of a project of law such as we need this side the border, judging from recent incidents in Chicago, New York, and elsewhere. The Canadian idea is that strikes in all public utilities, such as street railways, coal mines, railways, and steamship lines, should be illegal.
It is a significant fact that though there are, according to the last census, considerably over 200,000 domestic servants in the metropolitan area, there is not in the whole of the elaborate and costly system of educational training which the London County Council has under its control a single school or even class for training young girls for service.
Mrs. William S. Nichols, wife of the senior partner of the firm of W.S. Nichols  Co., 33 Wall-street, took leave of her servant, Elsor ...
Enterprising housekeepers, who have tried in vain to find reliable house servants in this city are now experimenting with colored help fresh from the South. If the new-comers prove worthy of their hire ample inducements will be offered to others of the race to came to Philadelphia.
Our domestics are not very troublesome to provide for. They need neither bed nor blanket, but roll themselves up in a rug and sleep where they feel "so disposed" -- on the kitchen floor cometimes. Wages are infinitesimal. A cook, who is also laundress, gets 12s. a month, a housemaid 6s., and a boy to look after the mules and do odd jogs, 16s.
From the Pittsburg Chronicle-Telegraph, Jan. 26. Mrs. Margaret Ertzman, a woman residing  at No. 2,308 Carson-street, South Side, was brought before United States Commissioner McCandless this morning on the charge of opening ...
Domestic servants get $2 to $12 a month; new bill grants time off, minimum cash wage and limited working hours
A demonstration of domestic servants, male and female, was held in Hyde Park this week, in the vicinity of the Serpentine, for the purpose of "demanding immediate redress to manifold grievances." There was a fairly good attendance, the majority of those present being females, and the Chairman, who said that he was a butler, stated that for obvious reasons the names of the speakers would not be given.
Catharine Murphy was employed as a servant by Horace S. Bradford, in the apartment house at Madison-avenue and Sixty-third-street. After she had left his service she visited the house to see another servant. On the day of her visit Mr. Bradford was robbed of some jewelry. A hallboy told him that he had seen Catharine leaving his kitchen.
"WANTED -- A reliable middle-aged woman to care for an invalid and her seven-months-old baby; liberal wages and permanent position."
The tariff bill introduced by Mr. RANDALL has been called "a bill to perpetuate Trusts." Let Us see whether it deserves this title.
The servant girl question still crops up in the newspapers. It is not to be wondered at that the question presents so many difficulties. In that class in America which boasts hereditary wealth the question is being settled on the lines followed in England -- the establishment of the clear and recognized relation of mistress and servant.
There has been so much written on this subject that there is little left for me to say.
A valuable gold watch and chain, a diamond ring a pearl and gold pencil case, a cluster of sapphires and pearls, a watch charm, two plain gold rings, a collar stud, and some valuable lace were found on Bertha Rosenthal, a girl of 18...
THE domestic servant never blosomed more brightly and conspicuously in every possible point of view than she does at the present time. That she challenges criticism and actually disarms it is a fact that is quite as well known as that one and one makes two.
Sam C. Hildreth has arranged for shipment today of the three-year-old, Grey Lag, to Windsor, Ont., where on Saturday he will meet his only remaining rival for the three-yearold championship, E.R. Bradley's Black Servant.
The White House has some aged servants. One of the doorkeeepers in the Executive Mansion was appointed to his place by Lincoln. He has been reappointed by every President, and he is there to-day, bent in form, but alert of mentality, and willing to tell all about the good old days. "Jerry,'' the aged colored porter in the White House, has been there since the days of Lincoln.
WINDSOR, Ontarior, July 29.--One of the best contests that has been witnessed on the Canadian circuit this season is looked for in the run  ning of the Devonshire International...
Fire broke out last Sunday evening in the cellar and attic of a house occupied by H.O. Condon and family, on Palisade-avenue, in the Greenville section of Jersey City. The flames were so evidently of incendiary origin that the...
Let those who lament the house servant's hard fate hark to a householder's lament, which is submitted as a wall exceeding in sadness any sounds from the other side. I have been married seven years and have not yet been able to afford more than one servant -- sometimes not even that. I've had Germans, Irish, Finns, Africans, French, Norwegians, and a few more.
The salary of a City Magistrate in this borough is $7,000. A man with the ability to earn $7,000 in any private calling would in general serve the city most acceptably in the office of City Magistrate. It is not so much profound learning in the law and long experience at the bar that are demanded for the performance of the duties of City Magistrate as good judgment and sound common sense.
In their own coun  try they are admirable, clean, obliging, and wonderfully hard working, but they lack the finish of good English servants. One great merit they certainly possess-- though orderly in their work, yet if the daily routine is interrupted they are not ...
NEW-HAVEN, Jan. 14.--Louisa Schwab was employed as a servant at the house of B. Rogowski, on Crown-street, three weeks ago. She was unable to give satisfaction to her employers and was several times reprimanded.
Gaekwar of Baroda servants strike for pay rises and union recognition; 4,000 munic workers, Baroda, strike in sympathy; 100 servants arrested; 15 fast in jail
Of all the organized efforts recently planned by women the one having for its object the foundation of a home training school and intelligence bureau for domestic servants is perhaps the most admirable.
Rose Magee, a pretty young woman employed as a servant by Mrs. Matilda, Meeserman, a dressmaker residing at 167 Wooster-street with her husband, Jacob Meeserman, a cabinetmaker, has disappeare, taking with her her employer's 9-months-old child.
Prince C G Bandini and Princess Maria chloroformed by 2 servants who escape with jewels and money
OCEAN GROVE, Aug. 2 -- There was a large attendance at the temperance camp meeting today. The address at the morning period was made by Mrs. M.C. Leavitt, the around-the-world white-ribbon missionary. "The Democratic Party," she said, "although boasting some honorable men, is managed by servants of Satan. The same is true of the Republican Party.
The oldest of Mr.  Mannering's servants, if not the most important, is Splinterbar, the coachman. For three generations, grandfather, father, and son, the Splinterbars have lived under the Squires of Durlestone, and, in spite of ...
Of course, in this city of cheap house rents, you would suppose that housekeeping would be a pleasant and easy matter, as help gets only an average of $10 a month. From personal experience I can say that nowhere in the country is it so difficult to get good servants as it is here. The best help is black.
COLLEGE POINT, L.I., May 10. -- Sally Hanze, a cook employed in the Berachah Orphan Asylum, in this village, this afternoon missed $40 from her bureau drawer, which had been broken open. She suspected her room mate, Anna Peters, and reported the case to the police.
A well-dressed man about 30 years of age attempted to break into the house of J.J. Wood, No. 126 Cambridge-place, Brooklyn, at 2 o'clock Wednesday afternoon. Katie Burns, a servant employed in a house opposite, ran across the street and rang the bell.
William Wiltshire, who was buried at Brompton Cemetery on Friday, was very nearly the oldest member of her Majesty's household when he died.
The letter to THE TIMES headed "She Turned Servant" "riled" me. No person, man or woman, of intelligence and grit need go backward, and the fact that a person does is proof that she has been, accidentally, placed above her level.
As these lines are written, HENRY G. PEARSON is reported to be dying. He is cut off in the prime of a noble and useful life, a martyr to the cause of civil service reform, and a victim to the cruel system of spoils.
civil servants of Lower Bavaria and Upper Palatine, failing to transfer children to Hitler Youth, to be listed by govt
(Mrs. Howe had a "perfect treasure" sent from the "old country " The first month passes.)--Treasure--No, ma'm, I find no fault with the charwoman, nor the bye that tinds the furnace; but the shtairs is very harrd, ma'm, as ye say yerself; me back is broke wid them.
MILWAUKEE, Wis., Jan. 17.--Social circles here are in a flurry over an approaching marriage. The groom to be is a gentleman of wealth and culture, who came to Milwaukee from Boston not many years ago, and has occupied a prominent position in the business world.
E C Rybicki and J T Fagan send code for domestic workers to H S Johnson
William Conden, a negro, 84 years old, who claimed to have been the body servant of Wendell Phillips, visited Police Headquarters yesterday and asked assistance to reach Boston.
Cos operating under govt franchises warned against allowing employes to wear green shirts or Integralist or Communist insignia
MEMPHIS, Tenn., Nov. 20.--A terrible tragedy, which will probably result in the death of two well-known and highly respected persons living four miles south ...
For over a year we (a couple of newly-weds) have tried to get help. We are willing to pay $18 a month, and, naturally, in a small country house, where the work is so light, this is mighty good pay. We tried Finns, Huns, Russians, Slavs -- young ones, old ones -- Yankees, and not one wanted to work.
--Your servants some  times involve you in amusing little difficulties, either by lending your property to your friends or by borrowing theirs for you.
1832, Feb.  24. Thackeray at that time was chiefly known as the writer of the "Yellowplush Papers" in Frazer's [sic] Magazine. He wished me to introduce him to the Morning Chronicle, but I ...
Mary O'Neil, 35 years old, hanged herself last night in the cellar of No. 2 East Thirty-thirdstreet, where she was employed by Dr. James B. Hunter. She had been in his employ as cook for three years, and had always behaved well. Yesterday she acted strangely, and was watched ...
DOWN in Tennessee there is a farm where for fifty-four years the man of all work has always been on the job, where for fortyfive years the mistress hasn't worried about a cook, where for thirty years the laundress has never gone on strike, and where for twenty-five years the  gardener has faithfully tended his garden.
The story about the Shah leaving England without giving the servants at Buckingham Palace their usual vails is certainly a fiction, ...
--Life  is here with the restrictions and leaden  dullness of a house where the servants are  treated as distinctly "inferiors"--creat--  ures without rights, and denied privileges  --animated machines for doing the work all ...
Householders who paid domestic servants $10 a wk must file information on Fed income tax returns
One fact is apparent to every Southern housekeeper--the younger generation of negro cooks is far inferior to the old. In fact it is hard to find colored servants capable of performing any domestic service satisfactorily.
Prime Min Attlee to conf with civil servants on purge procedures; accused held deprived of details of charges
ATLANTA, Ga., Aug. 23 -- Margaret Mitchell, author of "Gone With the Wind," who died last week of injuries received when struck by a speeding automobile, left an estate exceeding $250,000, it was indicated today when her last will and testament was probated in the Fulton County (Atlanta) Ordinary's Court.
Governor Lehman, who is now at Hot Springs, Va., has sent the following telegram to Mrs. Joseph T. Robinson: "I am inexpressibly shocked and grieved to hear of the untimely passing of your husband. Senator Robinson was a wonderful man and a splendid public servant.
In the cities of Worcester and Fall River and the town of Somerset the Swedish population is rapidly becoming an important element. The immigrants are mostly young girls, who seek employment as house servants.
Catherine, com  monly called "Smudgy," is a sort of character in her way a legacy left me by the cook when we parted last year. She used to come in for odd jobs, and so learned the ways of the house, and was altogether pleasanter to deal with than ...
The  King's principal cook (whose name is given as "Charles Brexton, Esq.,") had  150, and his assistant  120. These places were quite distinct from those of the clerks of the kitchen. Under the cooks were four ...
Nava Carlotte dies in France at age of 110; gave service to one family for 98 yrs
WINDSOR, Ontario, July 30.--Grey Lag, distinguished son of Star Shoot and Miss Minnie, by Meddler, heralded by turf writers in the East as "the best American three-year-old," this afternoon won the $20,000 Devonshire International.
At an early hour yesterday morning the servant girl employed by W.B. Taylor, in Wyandotte, Kan., was awakened by some person passing through her sleeping chamber out into the hallway. She quietly arose, locked the door of her room, and passed out onto the porch through the open window by which the burglar entered.
LEWIS E. PIERSON, President of the Merchants' Association, who is also Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Irving Na  tional Bank, in discussing the coming celebration of the association's twenty-fifth anniversary next Fall, called attention to the picturesque part that it had taken in perfecting the form ...
Indian housekeep  ing is at once very simple and paradoxically complex. The fact that all servants are on board wages, from the moonshee, who takes a temporary engagement as secretary or tutor, down to the humblest punkah-wallah or grasscutter, renders it comparatively easy for a master to know his expenses.
As most of the domestics of this city are now taking their Summer vacations, it is a pretty hard matter for the lady of the house to be "out" when callers appear.
Edward Leonard, who says that he is from Des Moines, Iowa, was taken to the Jefferson Market Police Court yesterday to answer two complaints of swindling Servant girls in search of employment.
"Who's that?" said the Countess, stopping in front of a young girl of 15 or 16, bent over an embroidery frame. The young girl rose, prostrated herself thrice before her mistress, then, getting up, remained standing, ...
A G Prada resigns as Amb to U S when told to restore servant who quit service of M Poindexter
A party of gentlemen were discussing the merits of waiters of different nationalities.  "In this blarsted kentry," remarked an Englishman, "the hotel waiters are doosid unfit, y'know. It's honly in the hold kentry that one can find waiters that are handy and to one's fawncy, d'ye hear."
GUESTS are expected on the afternoon train. I have tried my best to oil the household machinery so that the smallest cog will not creak.
Referring to the article in Saturday's edition entitled "Japanese in the Schools," would say I am a Californian, was born there, and have lived there the greater part of my life. The letter which Mrs. Philip Verrill Mighels wrote you regarding the Japanese in the San Francisco schools states the case perfectly to my mind.
Mr. Albert Dertsch and his wife returned home about 8 o'clock on Monday night to find their residence, No. 1,058 Eastern Boulevard, the scene of considerable excitement.
One of the amusements with which the heads of the numerous little principalities and duchies with which Germany is blessed console themselves for the loss of ...
The excessive demands made by domestic help have caused just as many families to quit living in apartments and to go to the hotels as have the mounting prices demanded by the rent...
It has been the custom for the German Empress for the last nine years to present golden crosses, each with an autograph diploma,...
Many years' experience as "managing housekeeper" has shown me that the attitude of Americans toward their servants is more like Russian autocracy than American democracy. It seems almost incredible that this vein of brutality to those they consider inferiors should be so marked in a people whose boast is freedom for all.
Of all dumb brutes the horse is the one which most deserves the gratitude of man. It has been his docile and willing servant for ages. It has helped him to conquer the reluctant earth. It has eased and aided him in the dull business of getting a living. It has played a greater part in human progress than many a race of men.
Coroner Davren, of Long Island City, Monday night resumed the investigation in the case of Mary O'Gorman, the insane woman who died in a cell at the Police station in Hunter's Point. The principal witness examined was Francis C. Goodwin of Astoria, whose mother, employed on ...
The articles of Mary Mortimer Maxwell that have appeared in your excellent paper are most interesting reading, the contribution to last Sunday's issue particularly so, because the servant question lies so near the hearts of all true home lovers. If the high wages that those of large incomes are able to pay do not command faithful and competent service, what can we of the moderate income expect to engage?
LONDON, Jan. 11. -- The first joint conference of Educational Associations was held this week at the University of London, and thirteen associations sent delegates.
Simmons Coll Dean S L Arnold proposes co-operative use of servants as aid in cutting high cost of living
Swedish legation, consulate personnel and other Gers working for Ger Govt in Sweden to be returned to Ger; Swedish servants refuse to work for legation
Mrs. Annie Nathan Meyer charges me with claiming "sex superiority" for women. My words were "Men are superior to women along certain lines, and women superior to men along certain others." Mrs. Meyer might just as well have taken the first half of the sentence and have accused me of asserting the superiority of men.
Visiting the  Hermitage not long ago, I found two old servants who had belonged to Gen. Jackson and had never left the place where they wore born. Not those of the old hero's own blood could feel greater pride of birth or a more religious...
Berlin Labor Ct holds maid, ordered by employer to buy from Jewish-owned shop, may leave without notice and collect wage until expiration of legal notice term
No economists, industrialists, trade unionists or civil servants wanted on advisory com to implement new bill
A peer who has servants who have been 63, 50, 40, 37, 32, and 29 years in his employ, must be a good master. Lady John Manners gives, in the new number of the Quiver, some...
To the Editor of The New York Times: The letter of "Kinorla" in this day's TIMES affords a fair sample of the feeling entertained by the average Tory voter in England and Ireland. It is said in Ireland that the Tory is like the Bourbon, "he never learns and he never forgets."
Charged with the larceny of linens and silverware valued at $1,000 from the apartment of Mrs. John J. Murtha, widow of the former Warden of the penitentiary on Blackwell's Island, who lives at 316 East Sixty-ninth Street,
The gratitude--using the word, on WALPOLE'S authority, to mean a "lively sense of future favors"--which was freely expressed when it was announced that Mr. GLADSTONE had chosen blind Prof. FAWCETT to be Postmaster-General has already received double justification.
SO now I am to roar about women, am I?" said Dr. Woods Hutchinson, with a cheerful smile, as he was cornered for an interview for THE TIMES. "And it all comes of having said that the precious tradition of the good housekeeping of our grandmothers is mostly trash."
Moscow, March 21--Although the newspapers Pravda, and Izvestia made no comment today on the resignation of the Daladier Cabinet, other papers devoted considerable space to attacking the former French Premier. I. Volynsky, for instance, in Trud, declared that ...
"I am always glad to talk about servants, if it will do anything toward solving the servant problem," said a woman engaged in philanthropic work, which includes an employment bureau for colored persons. "Our work here has been increasing largely, and a great many women come to us saying that they wish colored girls, for they are tired of the impudence of white servants.
Davin (Mrs), P; $28,000 worth; C Moore and J Stanley, former employe, arrested; plead not guilty
IT is now some years since I first heard that you New Yorkers had what you call a "servant problem.'' When I arrived here a few months ago I began to look about for it, with the thought that, perhaps, out of the plenitude of my British wisdom I might suggest to you some sort of makeshift "solution" of it.
LONDON, Nov. 6. -- A dispatch from St. Petersburg to Reuter's Telegram Company to-day says that Lieut. Gen. Stoessel, the defender of Port Arthur, is in such financial straits that he has applied to a charitable institution for wounded soldiers for assistance to enable him to employ a servant.
PARIS, March 20.--A servant in the kitchen of the Spanish Ambassador at Paris is going to have the fulfillment of her dream--she is going to see a performance at the Comedie Francaise, and in addition she has 500 frances cash to buy a new dress for the occasion.
LAST week these Sunday morning columns were gently chiding Arthur Hopkins for his phlegmatic stage direction. Lo, here they are rebuking Chester Erskin for direction that is overzealous! Criticism often finds itself in that quandary.
Members of Bldg Service Union employed by Bing & Bing at 1,009 Park Av apt strike
OTTAWA, Oct. 19.--The messengers in the civil service are nothing if not democratic. They don't mind giving their autographs free, but have decided objections to paying for the privilege. They all signed the jubilee address to her Majesty by the civil service. A collection of 50 cents apiece has been levied to help pay for the binding of the congratnlatory document.
40 ante-bellum negroes at Fayetteville, N C, get Christmas gifts through investment by W W Fuller of servant's legacy, which he established as J McAllister Christmas Fund
Inspector Thomas J. Brady, of the Bureau of Buildings, was on trial before the Fire Commissioners yesterday, charged with neglecting to report the construction of a wooden fence at One Hundred and Fourth-street and First-avenue, the erection of a frame shed near the same place and in the rear of a building at One Hundred...
pleads guilty to charge of felonious assault in second degree; put roach powder in milk to get even with milk driver
When Camille Piedmont, a French maid employed by Mrs. D. Harvey Middleton, who lives on the fourth floor of the Santa Monica apartments at 345 West Seventieth Street, was awakened ...
Berlin, Feb. 2. THE great problem before the German housewife of today is not  merely a new sphere of work; it is rather a complete change in the standpoint of life, which she...
"Hassan!" I had been told to call for Hassan if I wanted any  thing in the night. I wanted water. My neck and shoulders were on fire; my lips and throat were parched; the muscles of my arm refused their office; in the stress of pain I needed some one who could raise my head and lay the pitcher at my lips. What "Hassan" was like I had no notion, save that I had...
Roosevelt belittles repts of multiple soft desk jobs in Wash; reveals 60% of civil servants are engaged in war production and only 12% are housed in Wash
Govt offers Diet proposal to raise govt workers pay as result of strike threat; offer held inadequate
LET President Roosevelt, who so bravely and decidedly faces the "race suicide" question, weigh on the other side of the scales the "servant girl problem," and it will make interesting reading. It is scarcely possible, however, for any "mere man" fully to understand and appreciate the various causes that have led to the present conditions.
PARIS, April 20. -- It seems scarcely possible that the recent congress of railway servants here should pass with so little notice, when only three years ago their strike threatened to demolish the Government and actually came near to starving Paris. The drastic measures employed by M. Briand at the time were effective.
20-yr-old girl, servant of mil official, arrested in Northwest Finland in 2d big round-up of suspects
LONDON, Oct. 14. -- "Fanny and the Servant Problem," a new comedy by Jerome K. Jerome, was produced to-night at the Aldwych Theatre with a fair measure of success. At times the piece is heavy and tedious, but it can be greatly improved by cutting.
The last of this week's first-nights brings to the Longacre this evening "A Roman Servant," written by Larry O'Connor, staged by William B. Friedlander and presented by Pierre Arnaud ad Jack Connors. From left to right in its company are Ernest Glendinning, Lillian Kemble Cooper, Charles H. Croker King, Helene Millard, Leslie Denison and Lester Alden. At 8:45 P.M.
Distributes poem extolling "Lord of All Pots and Pans" (said to be written by English servant girl) at close of church service, Lakewood, N J
C Hamshaw, cook in London for 60 yrs, says at death that she would be satisfied to relive life as domestic servant
DETROIT, Mich., July 30. -- Annetta Halliday, a magazine writer,, in private life Mme. Alexander Antona of Detroit, is held by the police, with her husband and nephew, Angelo Vella, suspected of causing the death of Elizabeth Fleming, formerly a servant in the family, who had saved considerably money and willed it to the Antona family.
MINEOLA, L.I., Feb. 11. -- The will of Charlotte C. Garretson, who died at New Hyde Park, on Dec. 27, was filed to-day in Surrogate Graham's Court. It disposes of an estate estimated at more than $500,000.
HUNTINGTON, L.I., Sept. 21. -- Two hold-ups of women by highwaymen and the slashing of one of the women with a keen-bladed knife have caused much alarm here. Some who have to be out after nightfall have armed themselves.
ELIZABETH, N.J., April 16. -- A servant named Annie Daskeski, employed by Bernard Sherman of 64 First Street, and the one-year-old son of Mr. Sherman were struck and killed by a First Street trolley car to-night. The child's mother saw the tragedy from the door of her home.
The fatal combination of the careless servant and the can of kerosene in lighting a fire was exemplified again yesterday morning in an accident to Marie Hoerick, fifteen years old, in the employ of Nathan Sherry, a tailor, at 259 Delancey Street. Last night she was dying in Gouverneur Hospital.
WASHINGTON, Aug. 22. -- A statement received at the State Department from Mayroyeni Bey, the Turkish Minister to this country, indicates that the reported attack on St. Paul's College, an American institution at Tarsus, Armenia, was erroneous.
NAPLES, March 26. -- The court at Caserta has held for trial the servant of the late Miss Catherine McCready of New York, and the servant's father, on the charge of murdering Miss McCready.
Two damage suits for large amounts instituted by servants against wealthy folk for injuries alleged to have been inflicted by children of the defendants were heard in the Supreme Court yesterday.
From The Chicago Chronicle. The servant-girl question is a burning issue in Milwaukee. Housekeepers are in despair. Many of them cannot get servants of any kind and others get such poor ones that they wish they had none at all. A new movement has been started there within a short time by the management of certain charitable employment agencies who make a specialty of trying to find work for all sorts and conditions of people.
To the Editor of the New-York Times: The excellent article in the TIMES on "Servants" has encouraged me to speak. I have been anxiously expecting to see it followed up by other hints, , and thus prepare the way for action. Every household is suffering more or loss from the want of good, efficient servants, not helps."
Just as in the "Twelve Temptations" each coveted delight, each triumph in love or war or avarice, strikes so many years from the life of him who demands it, so it would seem that by mysterious dispensation each new discovery in science that softens human toil, or augments human achievements, or enjoyment, is attended by a corresponding penalty. Steam-boilers burst,
BERLIN, April 12. -- The overzealous effort of a private detective to unravel the mystery of the death of a school boy, Ernst Tiemann, found hanging by his parents in his home last October, has led him into a love entanglement and trouble with the, police.
The word kitchenette seems admirably descriptive, for it really tells you what it is, a little kitchen, whereas a suffragette is not a little suffrage, nor Hamlet a little ham. One warms up to kitchenette, the word, before he is warmed up by kitchenette, the thing.
Second interim report tells of superfluity of women in England and Wales and need of servants in Australasia
VIENNA, Dec. 30.--The Municipal Council of Vienna has now openly declared its inability to pay salaries due at the end of December amounting to 75,000,000 kronen, as only part of this amount can be scraped together.
IT was during the heat of August, too early to return to town, too late to go far away, and I walked the streets of a country village searching for a new boarding house.
Among the man lined up yesterday at Police Headquarters for the inspection of Central Office detectives was Robert McFarland of 344 East Ninetieth Street, who was arrested on suspicion of knowing something of the attempt to rob the home of William McAlpin, at 11 East Ninetieth Street, on the night of Dec. 10, when the thief escaped leaving behind a lot of jewelry and silverware already packed.
LONDON, Jan. 20. -- The "servant problem" in this country seems nonexistent to the average American visitor who has a chance of seeing something of English homes and who regards conditions here as almost heavenly, compared with the troubles over the servant question in the United States.
The woman who is showing up "Society in the United States" week by week in one of the London papers has got down to the servant stratum. How many housekeepers among us will subscribe to the following:
Natl City Bank Lr asserts rise proposed by Pres Truman will further hamper equity capital flow
If the "hired man" is disappearing, all the pleasanter is the survival of that good old word and institution, the "help"; "household help." Discussion here this week by delegates of twentyfour organizations of women brought out old and new aspects of a familiar problem.
While complex questions involving world flying have been under discussion at the International Civil Aviation Conference some important contributions toward clearing the air for the future of domestic aviation have been made at the second annual Aviation Clinic held in Oklahoma City.
FOR her latest problem of married life Faith Baldwin picks a charming pair who  apparently had everything.
It is already clear that President HOOVER'S anxieties, during the next two or three months, will be domestic rather than foreign.
THE evolution of the American motion picture has been a logical and purely native development for twenty years.
So long as the child's favorite pet is a kitten, and maiden ladies prefer the cat to the dog as a companion, the origin and family history of Felis domestica will be of interest. In The Contemporary Review for January AYLMER CECIL STRONG writes about "The Coming of the Cat."
Monte Blue and Marie Prevost, two players who invariably give a good account of themselves on the screen, are to be seen at Warners's Theatre this week in a clever marital comedy of errors, the light motif of which has been skillfully sustained. The characters in this production, known as "Other Men's Wives," have no idle moments, and their actions and expressions during the different episodes always afford agreeable entertainment.
M T Munn urges that place of origin be marked on domestic and foreign-grown seeds, lr
FORT WORTH, Tex., Oct. 12 (AP) -- The Port of New York Authority today urged that the entire rate scale for domestic all-rail, ocean-rail, and rail-ocean-rail class freight be revised immediately to restore relationships that have been disrupted by various rate increases since 1938.
The American Smelting and Refining Company lowered yesterday the price of copper in the domestic market to 9.75 cents a pound from 9.875 cents. The leading producers continued to quote 11 cents for the metal in the domestic market. Abroad prices ranged from 10.70 tb 10.825 cents, compared with 10.52 to 10.81 cents on Monday.
The addresses at Cleveland of the Chairman of the National Foreign Trade Council and of the Governor of the Federal Reserve Board are complementary, and gain importance when considered together.
Miss May HANCOCK, Professor of History, Old Testament and Expression in a Boston Bible School, seems to be the chief practical domestic economist of this time. She manages a dining club for the professors and students of the school, whom she furnishes with twenty-one "square ...
Mr. OWEN YOUNG'S speech in San Francisco yesterday on the basic economic problems of America is marked by the qualities with which his deliberate public utterances have long made us all familiar.
Families returning to town from the American resorts and from Europe will be gratified by the report that the supply of domestics is just now sufficient to make their households comfortable at a reasonable cost. The woman servants are mostly Irish girls, younger sisters of those who have already even satisfaction in domestic service, and whose "characters" are known to be good at the agencies.
ON a Winter's day about twenty years ago some riding horses arrived in New York City and were delivered at a riding school on the upper west side. Three or four young men who were interested in horses were on hand, along with an English groom, who was even more interested in the sport of soccer or association football than he was in horses.
Representative REAVIS of Nebraska suggested to the House a day or two ago that somebody ought to be prosecuted for collecting claims against small country banks and demanding payment in legal tenders.
Germany's domestic troubles; comments on derogatory remarks by Repub Natl Com against Allies on refunding U S for cost of maintenance of Rhine army
AMSTERDAM, March 10 -- Firmness ruled on the Stock Exchange here today, but the trading was light. Domestic equities rose as much as 9 points, with the Dutch-Indians in good demand.
USSR troops continue withdrawal operations; Iranian gen predicts peaceful settlement of all problems including Azerbaijan issue
Bill introduced in N Y S Legis to permit married persons to testify against each other; disapproved by N Y County Lawyers' Assn
No other nation in any year ever had a foreign trade of thirteen billions. For the fiscal year ended with June they United States exported $8,111,176,000 and imported $5,238,746,000 worth of goods. It is impossible to overlook 'such a commercial factor as ...
The Shipping Board reports that it has 1,301 idle merchant ships. The cable says that the Cunard Company is embarking upon new construction of 100,000 tons, and that it is about to revive services discontinued on account of the war.
Some time our foreign trade must react from its maximum, but it is still increasing, and has now reached dimensions comparable only with combinations of nations. It seems sure that the land and sea embargoes must soon make a greater impression ...
A BROAD and detailed picture of domestic life in eighteenth  century Connecticut is presented in this oddly named book, and a pleasant and interesting picture it is. A "salt-box" house, be it under- ...
The domestic trouble of Mr. KNOBLOCK of Chicago, caused indirectly by a new religious and ethical society called the Order of Melchisedec, deserves consideration. Most domestic trouble is of a common sort. The old, old story is told again day by day in Magistrates' courts and divorce papers.
Ed on article by C N Gregory in Amer Journal of Internatl Law on decision of League of Nations Council in referring Anglo-French citizenship dispute to Permanent Court of Internatl Justice
Norway's application for a loan of $20,000,000 was granted as readily as France's for $100,000,000, practically at sight. Norway's credit stands deservedly high. No default is on record against it, and only in times like...
Controller Delano repts on all active banks in U S and its possessions as of June 30
They've made a pleasant screen comedy out of material taken from Booth Tarkington play, "Clarence." It is at the Rivoli this week.As might be expected, the picture is not as good as the original play was, and, be it hoped, still is, which is due, in large part, to the fact that the play needs the speaking stage. Inevitably much of it is lost in the process of adapting it to the silent, pictorial screen. At best, the cinema can be only a substitute.But it's a good substitute. William de Mille, the director, and Clara Beranger, the scenarist, have been faithful to the Tarkington spiritexcept for occasional lapses into the heavy moralizing from which the movies seem incapable of escaping altogetherand they seem to have put as much as possible of the story into moving pictures that mean something. Also, the cast gives a good account of itself.In the rle of Clarence, the returned soldier, who, innocently looking for a job, finds himself on the domestic battleground of the perpetually agitated Wheeler family, Wallace Reid qualifies beyond expectations. He fits into the part of the meek, yet exceedingly competent, Clarence with apparent ease and is able in several places to indulge in the light comedy pantomime at which he is adept. And May McAvoy, the long missing and keenly missed Miss McAvoy, who for some strange reason has not been provided with a picture and a part worthy of her remarkable talent since "Sentimental Tommy," at last has a chance to do a little of the acting of which she is capable. She is seen as the romantic daughter of the Wheeler family whose headlong attachments are one of the causes of its agitation. Agnes Ayres, as the governess whom Clarence takes away with him when he leaves the family to go back to his bugs, is something more than satisfactory, and Kathlyn Williams, as the dissatified wife, is, as usual, definitely expressive. Although Robert Agnew is not another Glenn Hunter he is amusing and clear as the ebullient son of the household who kisses the maid and wants to marry the governess, and Edward Martindel does well as the distracted father. The rest of the cast is sufficient.So, you see, this charming story of the professor of entomology who was a mule driver during the war and, without designs on his part, the peacemaker in a disordered family before returning to his college chair, retains not a little of its charm on the screen and doubtless will be found especially entertaining by those who did not see the stage play and do not know, therefore, how much they are missing.Also at the Rivoli is an attractively colored and genuinely sentimental picture called "Moonlight Sonata," which tells the story of Beethoven's visit to the cottage of a blind girl and of his improvization there of the composition after which the picture is named. It is an affecting little film.Another number is "Man vs. Beast," a pictorial record of the expedition into East Africa led by the late Louis Shuman. There are a number of striking views of the African landscape and the manners and habits of the natives are interestingly presented. There are also some exciting hunting pictures, though the shooting and death struggles of animals do not come under the head of "sport" and "entertainment" in every one's vocabulary, surely.One of those diverting and ingenious Funny Face doll comedies, called "Soldiers of Fortune," brings the bill to a close.They've made a pleasant screen comedy out of material taken from Booth Tarkington play, "Clarence." It is at the Rivoli this week.As might be expected, the picture is not as good as the original play was, and, be it hoped, still is, which is due, in large part, to the fact that the play needs the speaking stage. Inevitably much of it is lost in the process of adapting it to the silent, pictorial screen. At best, the cinema can be only a substitute.But it's a good substitute. William de Mille, the director, and Clara Beranger, the scenarist, have been faithful to the Tarkington spiritexcept for occasional lapses into the heavy moralizing from which the movies seem incapable of escaping altogetherand they seem to have put as much as possible of the story into moving pictures that mean something. Also, the cast gives a good account of itself.In the rle of Clarence, the returned soldier, who, innocently looking for a job, finds himself on the domestic battleground of the perpetually agitated Wheeler family, Wallace Reid qualifies beyond expectations. He fits into the part of the meek, yet exceedingly competent, Clarence with apparent ease and is able in several places to indulge in the light comedy pantomime at which he is adept. And May McAvoy, the long missing and keenly missed Miss McAvoy, who for some strange reason has not been provided with a picture and a part worthy of her remarkable talent since "Sentimental Tommy," at last has a chance to do a little of the acting of which she is capable. She is seen as the romantic daughter of the Wheeler family whose headlong attachments are one of the causes of its agitation. Agnes Ayres, as the governess whom Clarence takes away with him when he leaves the family to go back to his bugs, is something more than satisfactory, and Kathlyn Williams, as the dissatified wife, is, as usual, definitely expressive. Although Robert Agnew is not another Glenn Hunter he is amusing and clear as the ebullient son of the household who kisses the maid and wants to marry the governess, and Edward Martindel does well as the distracted father. The rest of the cast is sufficient.So, you see, this charming story of the professor of entomology who was a mule driver during the war and, without designs on his part, the peacemaker in a disordered family before returning to his college chair, retains not a little of its charm on the screen and doubtless will be found especially entertaining by those who did not see the stage play and do not know, therefore, how much they are missing.Also at the Rivoli is an attractively colored and genuinely sentimental picture called "Moonlight Sonata," which tells the story of Beethoven's visit to the cottage of a blind girl and of his improvization there of the composition after which the picture is named. It is an affecting little film.Another number is "Man vs. Beast," a pictorial record of the expedition into East Africa led by the late Louis Shuman. There are a number of striking views of the African landscape and the manners and habits of the natives are interestingly presented. There are also some exciting hunting pictures, though the shooting and death struggles of animals do not come under the head of "sport" and "entertainment" in every one's vocabulary, surely.One of those diverting and ingenious Funny Face doll comedies, called "Soldiers of Fortune," brings the bill to a close.
Commerce Min com to check on exploration projects in move to spur production in line with Allied authorities suggestion; current output reptd at 1/3 of pre-war level; potential reserves estimated
THE steady march of the seasons brings another one to the city tonight. Under the glare of arc lights a start is to be made in the indoor polo competition which leads to the national championships of the early Spring. League competition and a special match in which Winston Guest, the greatest of the indoor players, takes part form the excitement for this first evening of play.
Cabinet resigns over dispute on charges that Min Markezinis engaged in currency smuggling; Premier Sophoulis asked to form Govt
PEOPLE of the North and West cannot realize that domestic service in the South has become a problem. So many negro servants hail from Virginia and the Carolinas and sister States that it would seem as though they were as plentiful as the blackberries in midsummer, but household labor has already assumed a phase which causes great inconvenience and grave fears as to the future.
Increased activity in domestic relations div of Pittsburgh County Ct seen as indication of economic improvement
The report late yesterday of the Department of Agriculture on the probable yields this year of the nation's principal grain crops indicated that production will approximate the average for 1928-32, the last five years of unlimited output.
The mania for getting married which besets so many domestic servants often results in their finding themselves either widowed or deserted in the course of a few years, with a number of young children to provide for. They are generally both able and willing to return to domestic service, but that way of earning a living is barred to them by the necessity of looking after their incumbrances at home.
During this campaign, overshadowed as it is by the war and our increasing part in it, all writers on international affairs must receive letters protesting against the emphasis placed on foreign policy in the electoral battle.
M Ethridge article on need to devise non-partisan domestic program as prerequisite to US assumption of adult, stable role in world affairs; cartoon
IT as all my fault an when I come to think it over, I don't blame her if she never comes back, and I never had so good a girl as Mary, either."
WASHINGTON, Nov. 10. -- The October monthly statement of domestic exports, issued by the Bureau of Statistics, shows as follows:
The renewal of gold exports last week on a very large scale invested the foreign exchange situation with a peculiar interest. So far the export of thirty millions of gold since Jan. 1 has been attended with scarcely a flutter in the money market. During the week there has been a radical change in conditions.
With a territory as large as Europe, a population double that of Great Britain, and domestic industries nearly equaling the aggregate of those of Great Britain, France, and Germany, the foreign trade of the United States is much smaller than that of any of these countries. But in twenty years France increased her foreign trade 3 per cent., Germany 11 per cent., the United Kingdom 17 per cent., and the United States 66 per cent.
letter urging that railroads refuse to handle war munitions and concentrate selely on transportation of domestic freight
CHICAGO, Jan. 12.--Forty spectators in Judge Asa G. Adams's Court of Domestic Relations left the courtroom penniless today after Judge Adams summoned them before him, ...
John Carter, who recently in herited $20,000 was arrested yesterday in Newark charged with running away with the wife of John Lake of 225 Sullivan-street, in this city. To-day Lake tried to shoot Carter. Mrs. Lake, who was in Carter's house at the time, made her escape. Carter gave bail for trial.
A planter in Karney, Texas, has successfully produced in that section a cotton similar to Egyptian at an average of 250 pounds of lint per acre. This reproduction of the Nile product is said to possess all of the high qualities of the original. Were this true, it would at once become qutie a factor in the cotton situation and take a distinct place in the market.
4Foreign exchange was dull and easier. The posted rates for sterling on Saturday were $4.SS for sixty-day bills and $4.89 1/2 for demand. Actual business was done on Saturday at $4.87 1/2 @$4.87 3/4 for sixty-day bills. $4.88 1/2@$4.88 3/4 for demand, $4.88 3/4@$4.89 for cable transfers, and $4.86 3/4 for commercial.
US War Dept abolishes mil priorities on commercial lines as of Oct 15; cuts priorities as of Sept 15
The foreign exchange market displayed a tendency to ease. Posted rates for sterling were $4.88 for sixty-day bills and $4.89 1/2 for demand. Actual business was done at $4.87 @ $4.87 1/4 for sixty-day bills, $4.88 1/2 @ $4.88 3/4 for demand, $4.89 for cable transfers, and $4.86 1/4 @ $4.86 1/2 for commercial.
The foreign exchange market was dull and steady. Nominal rates were $4.87 1/2@$4.88 for sixty days and $4.88 1/2@$4.89 for demand. Actual rates were $4.87 1/4 for sixty-day bilis, $4.88 1/4 for demand, $4.88 1/4@$4.83 1/2 for cable transfers, and $4.86 1/3 for commercial.
The foreign exchange market was quiet. Sixtyday sterling was firm, but demand and cable transfers were somewhat easier. The posted rates for sterling were $4.86 for 60-day bills and $4.90 for demand. Actual business was done at $4.85 12@$4.85 34 for 60-day bills, $4.89@$4.89 14 for demand, $4.90 for cable transfers, and $4.84 12@ $4.84 34 for commercial.
The foreign exchange market was firm. Posted rates for sterling were unchanged from yesterday, being $4.86 for sixty-day bills and $4.881/2 for demand. Actual business was done at $4.841/2@S4.843/4 for sixty-day bills, $4.871/4 @$4.871/2 for demand, $4.873/4@$4.88 for cable transfers, and $4.831/4@$4.833/4 for commercial.
The foreign exchange market was inactive but rather steadier in tone. The posted rates for sterling were $4.86 for 60-day bills and $4.88 for demand. Actual business was done at $4.85@$4.85 1/4 for 60-day bills, $4.87@$4.87 1/4 for demand, $4.87 1/4@$4.87 1/2 for cable transfers, and $4.83 1/2@$4.84 for commercial.
Foreign exchange was dull and inactive. The posted rates For sterling on Saturday were $4.37 1/2 for 66-day bills and $4.88 for demand. Actual business was done on Saturday at $6.37 for 60-day bills. $4.88 for demand, $4.88 1/4 cable transfers, and $4.86@$4., $6 1/4 for Commer.
The foreign exchange market was dull and weak. There was no pressure of bills, but the diminishing premium on cold to arrive induced selling by bankers. The posted rates for sterling were reduced to $4.82 1/2 for 60-day bills and $4.87 1/2 for demand. Actual business was done at $4.81 1/2@$4.81 3/4 for 60-day bills, $4.86 @$4.86 3/4 for demand, $4.87@$4.87 3/4 for cable transfers, and $4.80@$4.80 1/2 for commercial.
The foreign exchange market was dull, generally firm, and almost destitute of feature. Posted rates for sterling on Saturday were $4.86 1/2 for sixty-day bills and $4.88 1/2 for demand. Actual business was done on Saturday at $4.85 1/2@$4.85 3/4 for sixty-day bills, $4.87 1/2@$4.87 3/4 for demand, $4.87 3/4@ $4.88 for cable transfers, and $4.84 3/4@$4.85 for commercial.
The foreign exchange market closed fairly firm after a week of considerable fluctuations. The posted rates for sterling on Saturday were $4.82 for sixty-day bills and $4.85 for demand. Actual business was done at $4.81@$4.81 1/4 for sixty-day bills, $4.83 3/4@ $4.84 for demand, $4.84 1/4 for cable transfers, and $4.79 3/4 for commercial.
The foreign exchange market was steady early in the day, but weakened on the higher rates for money. The posted rates for sterling were advanced during the morning, but subsequently were reduced again to $4.84 for 60-day bills and $4.86 for demand. Actual rates were nominal.
The foreign exchange market was unsettled. It opened weak, but gained strength later in the day, and closed steady. The posted rates for sterling were $4.83 1/2 for 60-day bills and $4.85 1/2 for demand. Actual business was done at $4.81 @ $4.81 1/4 tot 60-day bills, $4.83 1/4 @ $4.83 1/2 for demand, $4.83 3/4 @ $4.84 for cable transfers, and $4.79 for commercial.
To the Editor of The New York Times: In your issue of Sept. 29 "Housekeeper" asks information relative to soft coal, complaining that the soft coal supplied in this market is all dust.
The foreign exchange market was dull and firm. The posted rates for sterling were $4.86 for sixty-day bills and $4.87 for demand. Actual business was done at $4.85 1/2 for sixty-day bills, $4.86 1/2 for demand, $4.86 3/4 for cable transfers, and $4.84 3/4 for commercial.
WASHINGTON, March 2 -The Department of Agriculture reported today 1947 domestic wool production dropped to the lowest level since 1925.
A curious power of attorney, granted by Mr. Fradau, of Caracas, Venezuela, to his daughter, Mrs. Ellen Seeger, of Brooklyn, will be taken into the Supreme Court to-day in a suit to regain possession of Mr. Fradau's youngest daughter, Pauline.
The foreign exchange market was dull and slightly easier. The posted rates for sterling were unchanged at $4.87 1/2 for sixty-day bills and $4.88 1/2 for demand. Actual business was done at $4.86 3/4@$4.87 for sixty-day bills, $4.87 3/4@$4.88 for demand, $4.88@ $4.88 1/4 for cable transfers, and $4.85 1/2@ $4.85 3/4 for commercial.
The foreign exchange market was weak and without much activity. The posted rates for sterling were reduced to $4-84 1/2@$4.85 for sixty-day bills and $4.87@$4.87 1/2 for demand. Actual business was done at $4.83 1/2@$4.83 3/4 for sixty-day bills, $4.85 3/4@$4.861/4 for demand, $4.86@$4.86 1/3 for cable transfers, and $4.82@$4.82 1/4 for commercial.
The foreign exchange market was steady. The posted, rates for sterling were unchanged at $4.86 for 60-day bills and $4.90 for demand. Actual business was done at $4.85 $4.85 1/4 for 60-day bills, $4.89$4.89 1/4 for demand, $4.90$1.9O 1/4 for cable transfers, and $4.84$4.84 1/4 for commercial.
The foreign exchange market was dull and firm. The posted rates for sterling were reduced to $4.83 1/2 for 60-day bills and $4.88 1/2 for demand. Actual business was done at $4.82 @$4.82 1/2 for 60-day bills, $4.87@$4.87 1/2 for demand, $4.88 1/4 for cable transfers, and $4.80 1/2 for commercial.
In answer to the question, Why does a woman who enters domestic service forfeit recognition as a social equal? I would suggest the question, Does she really forfeit such recognition? Can any one forfeit that which he or she has never possessed?
Workmen's Compensation Bd chmn explains bill; states employers subject to civil, not criminal, penalties for violations
The foreign exchange market was dull and easier in the morning, but firmer later in the day. Posted rates were unchanged at $4.86 1/2 for sixty-day bills and $4.88 for demand. Actual business was done at $4.86 1/4 for sixty-day bills, $4.87 1/4@$5.87 1/2 for demand, $4.87 1/2@$4.87 3/4 for cable transfers, and $4.85 for commercial.
The foreign exchange market has been quiet. Posted rates for sterling were $4.82 1/2 for sixty-day bills and $4.87 for demand. Actual business was done on Saturday at $4.82 @ $4.82 1/4 for sixty-day bills, $4.86 @ $4.86 1/4 for demand, $4.87 @ $4.87 1/4 for cable transfers, and $4.81 1/4 @ $4.81 1/2 for commercial.
The foreign exchange market was dull and steady. Posted rates for sterling were $4.82 1/3 for sixty-day bills and $4.87 1/2 for demand. Actual business was done at $4.82@$4.82 1/2 for sixty-day bills, $4.86@$4.86 1/4 for demand, $4.87@$4.87 1/4 for cable, and $4.81 for commercial.
The foreign exchange market was strong at the opening, but eased off slightly during the day. The posted rates for sterling were unchanged at $4.84 1/2 for sixty-day bills and $4.87 1/2 for demand. Actual business was done at $4.83 1/2@$4.83 3/4 for sixty-day bills, $4.86 1/4@$4.86 1/2 for demand, $4.86 3/4@$4.87 for cable transfers, and $4.82 1/2 for commercial.
The foreign exchange market was firm but quiet. The posted rates for sterling were $4.85 1/2 for sixty-day bills and $4.87 1/2 for demand. Actual business was done at $4.84 1/4, @$4.84 3/4 for sixty-day bills, $4.86 1/2 for demand, $4.86 3/4 for cable transfers, and $4.83@ $4.83 1/2 for commercial.
The foreign exchange market was firm all morning, but fell sharply in the afternoon. The posted rates for sterling were $4.84 for 60-day bills and $4.89 for demand. Actual business was done at $4.82 1/2@$4.83 1/2 for 60-day bills., $4.87 3/4@$4.88 1/4 for demand, $4.90@$4.91 for cable transfers, and $4.81 for commercial.
The foreign exchange market was very quiet. The posted rates for sterling were unchanged at $4.85 for sixty-day bills and $4.87 for demand. Actual business was done at $4.83 3/4 @$4.84 for sixty-day bills, $4.85 3/4 for demand, $4.86 1/4 for cable transfers, and $4.82 1/2 @$4.83 for commercial.
Miners & Merchants Bank and Bank of Mex to control domestic sale and fix price, Mex
The foreign exchange market was weak during the morning, but raillied in the afternoon. The posted rates for aberling were reduced 1/2c on the pound, but were subsequently restored to $4.83 for 60-day bills and $4.85 for demand. Actual business was done at $4.81 3/4@$4.82 1/2 for 60-day bills, $4.84@4.84 1/4 for demand, $4.84 1/2@$4.84 3/4 for cable transfers, and $4.80 for commercial.
The foreign exchange market was weak. The posted rates for sterling were reduced to $4.85 for sixty-day bills and $4.87 1/2 for demand. Actual business was done at $4.84 2/4 for sixty-day bills, $4.86 1/2 for demand, $4.87 for cable transfers, and $4.83@$4.83 1/4, for commercial.
The foreign exchange market has been quiet. Posted rates for sterling ware $4.83 for sixtyday bills and $4.86 3/4 for demand. Actual business was done on Saturday at $4.82 1/4@$4.82 3/4 for sixty-day bills, $4.85 3/4 for demand, $4.86 3/4 for cables, and $4.81 1/2 for commercial.
The foreign exchange market was weak. The posted rates for sterling were unchanged at $4.85@$4.87 1/2 for sixty-day bills and $4.87 1/2 for demand. Actual business was done at $4.84 1/4, for sixty-day bills, $4.86 1/2 for demand, $4.87 for cable transfers, and $4.83@$4.83 1/4, for commercial.
The foreign exchange market continued firm. The advance on discount in London caused renewed strength in short sterling and ease in long. The posted rates for sterling were $4.85 1/2 for 60-day bills and $4.90 for demand. Actual business was done at $4.84 1/2@$4.84 3/4 for 60-day bills, $4.89 1/4@$4.90 1/4 for demand, $4.90 1/4@$4.90 1/2 for cable transfers, and $4.83 1/2 @$4.84 for commercial.
The foreign exchange market was strong and sterling rates advanced 1/210. Posted rates were $4.86 for sixty-day bills and $4.87 1/2 $4.89 for demand. Actual business was done at $4.85 1/4 @ $4.85 1/3 for sixty-day bills, $4.87 3/4 for demand, $4.88@$4.88 1/4 for cable transfers, and $4.84 1/4 for commercial.
The foreign exchange market was strong on light offerings and continued inquiry. The posted rates for sterling were advanced to $4.85 for sixty-day bills and $4.88 for demand. Actual business was done at $4.84 @ $4.84 1/4 for sixty-day bills, $4.86 1/2 @ $4.86 3/4 for demand, $4.87 @ $4.87 1/4 for cable transfers, and $4.83 1/4 for commercial.
Foreign exchange was generally firm. The posted rates for sterling were advanced to $4.87 for sixty-day bils and $4.88 for demand. Actual business was done on Saturday at 84.85 3/4 @ $4.86 for sixty-day bills, $4,86 3/4 @ $4.87 for demand, $4.87 @ $4.87 1/4 for cable transfers, and $4.84 3/4 @ $4.85 for commercial.
Stocks of domestic and foreign crude petroleum at the close of the week ending March 20 totaled 291,555,000 barrels, according to figures compiled by the Bureau of Mines.
The foreign exchange market was bare of bills and very firm. The posted rates for sterling were unchanged at $4.84 1/2 for sixty-day bills and $4.87 1/2 for demand. Actual business was done at $4.83 3/4@$4.84 1/2 for sixty-day bills, $4.86 1/4@$4.86 1/2 for demand, $4.86 3/4@ $4.87 for cable transfers, and $4.82 1/4,@$4.82 3/4 for commercial.
The foreign exchange market was heavy. The posted rates for sterling were unchanged at $4.85 1/2 for sixty-day bills and $4.88 for demand. Actual business was done at $4.84@$4.84 1/2 for sixty-day bills, $4.86 1/3 for demand, $4.87 for cable transfers, and $4.83@$4.83 1/4 for commercial.
The foreign exchange market was demoralized by the high rates for money. The redaction of the rate of discount by the Bank of England, had no appreciable effect, as it had been fully anticipated. The posted rate for sterling was reduced to $4.85 for 60-day bills and $4.87 for demand. Actual business was done at $4,84 1/4 for 60-day bills, $4.85 3/4 for demand, $4,86 1/4 for cable transfers, and $4.83 for commercial.
Argentina concludes pact for 3 Lloyd Argentino ships; will reorganize French Compagnie Sud-Atlantique and operate 3 interned French ships, Formose, Katiola and Campana
Trygve Lie, Secretary General of the United Nations, has announced that one of the first acts of the Economic and Social Council which met Saturday will be to summon an International Conference on Trade and Employment.
The foreign exchange market was irregular. The posted rates for sterling were reduced to $4.85 1/2 for 60-day bills and $4.58 1/2 for demand. Actual business was done at $4.85 1/4@ $4.85 1/2 for 60-day bills, $4.87 1/4 for demand, $4.87 3/4 for cable transfers, and $4.83 1/2 for commercial.
That domestic animals should have their hospital is only fair, for most of the ills from which they suffer have their origin in their being domesticated.
The domestic tribulations of Adjt. Jay Gould Warner, who, by the way, was born before the financier was graduated as a State surveyor, have been partially adjusted.
It appears from the official statistics that last year there were 557,405 horses in Ireland, which was an increase of 8,201 as compared with 1886.
There are too many low-grade cooks, dirty nurses, and lazy housegirls. They have demoralized the better class of negro servants, to be found here before the war, and at that time one of the features of Southern households.
The committee appointed to deal with the importation of black slaves into the Turkish and Persian dominions met in Brussels, writes the correspondent of the Manchester Guardian recently. A hot discussion immediately began between Caratheodori, Turkish Minister, and the President, M. Lambermont, on the Belgian scheme.
Rudolph V. Czagle, dealer in passement erie at 87 Columbia-st., went to the Twelfth Precinct Station House last night and said that he had taken Paris green because of domestic trouble.
Men of a certain order are much addicted to talking of domesticity in women, as if it were not only a sovereign virtue, but the sole virtue worth their having. They seem to think domesticity so momentous and absorbing as to leave little, if any, room for cultivation of personal attractiveness or the social graces.
There have lately appeared in your paper numerous open letter which argued pro and con the moral and physical benefits derived from a scientific study and application of the New Psychology -- more generally known as the Emmanuel Movement, Christian Science, New Thought,
A domestic appearance, unusual for a building of its size, has been incorporated in the new $1,500,000 central building of the Young Women's Christian Association of Brooklyn at 30 Third Avenue. The structure is ready for occupancy and will be formally opened in a few weeks.
ROME, Jan. 12--Italy in wartime is extraordinarily self-centered. In Great Britain and France this war of waiting is somewhat like a reducing process; the superficial layers and veneers of everyday life are gradually stripped ...
CHICAGO, Oct. 8 -- Domestic demand for cash lard continues fairly good, with sales almost entirely at ceiling prices, and some packers say they have little unsold product on hand owing to the light run of hogs and the necessity of filling Government orders.
A policeman found a man, lying on a cart in Fourth-avenue, between One Hundred and Twenty-eighth and One Hundred and Twentyninth streets, last evening and was proceeding to run him in as a "drunk," when the prisoner ...
NY Port Authority files brief backing Pan Amer plea for CAB ctfs for direct routes, NYC to Los Angeles, San Francisco and Miami
Sales of copper in the domestic market on Wednesday were estimated yesterday in the trade at 25,409 tons. This brings total sales for the first twenty-two days in July in the domestic market to about 170,454 tons, the largest for any month on record.
Reflecting the continued uneasiness over domestic and foreign conditions, financial markets followed an irregular course last week. Although, the contents of President Truman's message to the joint session of Congress had been anticipated, the message was well received in financial circles, where the effect of the move on the nation's economy was being weighed as the week ended.
CHICAGO, May 28 -- Production of lard continues heavy, but there is a fairly good domestic demand and announcement that the Office of Price Administration has lifted all restrictions on the purchases of lard by interests who have heretofore been restricted to thirty days' supply is expected to result in more rapid shipments, which will relieve the storage situation to some extent.
Joseph Pfeiffer, of No. 137 Mulberrystreet, Newark, was found lying unconscious on Coles-street, Jersey City, yesterday morning. The Newark police say that he had trouble with...
READING, Penn., Feb. 17.--Mrs. Alice Kintzell, wife of Frank Kintzell, of Pottstown, purchased a heavy dose of laudanum to-day, went to her room, and swallowed it. Suspicion was aroused, and no answer being given to ...
DETROIT, Mich., Jan. 22.--The Cole-Price case at Ypsilanti has already reached its final stage. Cole, the injured husband, did not appear in court against William Price and Lizzie Cole, the alleged adulterers, and the prisoners were discharged.
THE air traveler using the regular commercial airlines of this country undoubtedly enjoys the best domestic flying service in the world. From a technological standpoint our lines are even with, if not ahead, of the domestic lines of other nations.
Swinging higher during yesterday's abbreviated session, prices on the New York Stock Exchange closed at the best levels of the day as the Reconstruction Finance Corporation's price for newly mined domestic gold continued unchanged at $34.01 an ounce.
The big event of the week was the wedding of Maggy Rouff's daughter to Viscomte Gerard de Dancourt. The bride wore an utterly simple gown in heavy mat white crepe.
Group of NJ business men, war workers and farmers drafts 4 freedoms platform for presentation to both parties
CHICAGO, Nov. 29 -- Although the output of lard at leading slaughtering points increased last week, there is no evidence of any material accumulation of supplies, owing to an urgent demand from the domestic trade and further liberal sales for lend-lease purposes.
Sen Condon offers bill to cover full-time domestic servants, N Y S; Mrs B Cobb comments
Offering of a new issue of $15,000,000 Federal Land Bank 4  per cent. bonds, dated Nov. 1, 1928, and due in 1958, and redeemable at par at any time after ten years, will be ...
Between 6 and 7 o'clock yesterday morning Daniel Sullivan, a farmer, residing at Old Westbury, town of North Hempstead, L.I., went to the house of his son-in-law, Mathew Curley, as...
A singular case of domestic misery was brought up for settlement in Judge Massey's court, Brooklyn, yesterday. The wife of Irwin F.Beadle, a son of Erastus Beadle, the dime novel publisher, sues him for abandonment. The couple were married about nine years ago, and...
A new issue of $9,000,000 Bellows Falls Hydro-Electric Corporation first mortgage 5 per cent. bonds, due on Oct. 1, 1958, will be offered today at ...
AS an old and devoted tub-thumper for wholesome domestic comedy -- the sort of untroubled entertainment which draws amusement from the normal walks of life -- this corner has watched with quiet interest the diligence and consistency with which a couple of studios have succeeded with this type of film since the war.
It is a painful thing when man and wife fail to agree. Such at present is the unfortunate condition of Mr. and Mrs. Thompson, whose place of residence does not concern the general public.
JAMES RANDOLPH CURTIS is a promising young man. He works for Smith  Eldridge, dealers in mines of various assortments, oil wells, and stone quarries. Mr. Smith is manager of the firm. He likes James Randolph, and says that if he didn't have such an unmentionable kind of a fool for a wife he would amount to something some day.
Twenty-three years since a man was married to a respectable woman, and after leading her a miserable life for three years he disappeared. Nothing having been heard of the, man for 12 years, the wife, on receiving an offer from a well-to-do farmer, married him, and settled in the same neighborhood.
The strength imparted to the market in Thursday's late dealings by the reports from Washington of improved prospects for the enactment of a sales tax was insufficient to withstand the depressing influence of the announcement early yesterday afternoon of the reduction in the quarterly dividend of the General Electric Company from 25 cents to 10 cents.
IN certain households in New York there are special subjects whose discussion is under a boycott.
SYRACUSE, Sept. 14.--About six weeks ago Mrs. Jones escaped from her home in Skaneateles to avoid going to an insane asylum, as she believes, and is now living in Camillus, a short distance from this city.
Stock prices coasted along last week in the dullest trading in some time. With the month of August ended, there was not a millionshare day in the period, and the transfer of 480,000 shares on Wednesday was the slowest for a full session in three years.
American manufacturers Of kimonos and negligees are facing a serious situation as a result of the flooding of the domestic market during...
On French vs Amer silks, at annual dinner of Silk Assn of America, N Y C
NEW ORLEANS, Nov. 11 -- The result of the national election indicates rather definitely that the chance of the two-party system becoming established in Louisiana is not as remote as might appear on the surface. The returns show that Mr. Roosevelt carried every parish in Louisiana, but Mr. Dewey received the heaviest Republican vote recorded in this State since the Rutherford B. Hayes election in 1876.
Sales of copper were made abroad yesterday at 17.45 cents a pound, or more than 1 cent a pound above the domestic level. The bulk of the business was done around 17.225 cents. On Wednesday the range of prices abroad was between 16.675 to 17.225 cents.
ARGENTINA: decrees State-controlled air transport fleet; privately-owned airlines asked to join Army-operated State airlines (Lade); internatl lines not affected
Prices of lead were advanced yesterday $50 a ton, New York, by the leading lead refiners because of the pressure of shippers who stressed that foreign sales of imported lead were being made here at prices higher than the domestic price of 15 cent a pound.
The inquest in the case of Thalberg Von Biedenfeld, the German druggist of 3 Secondavenue, who died on Jan. 8 from an injury said to have been received on the day before in a scuffle with his clerk, Anders Holm, was begun ...
With reference to your editorial in to-day's paper and to the letter of Mr. George C. Potter, dated March 23, I desire to make the following statements:
Wall Street itself was taken considerably by surprise at the character of yesterday's rise on the Stock Exchange. In numerous instances, prices scored a substantial overnight advance and, in the earlier trading, gains over Monday's closing ranged in the more active shares from 3 to 7 points.
Prices of domestic stocks, after having dropped 1 to 2 points in dealings on the New York Stock Exchange yesterday, suffered additional losses of about the same amount on the Exchanges of the Pacific Coast as the late news from Europe emphasized the growing danger of war.
A sudden wave of copper buying abroad yesterday sent the price of the metal to the equivalent of 9.05 cents a pound at European base ports, a gain of 20 points from the high on Friday and the highest for the current move. The price now is 85 points above that of Sept. 1 and the highest since July 11, 1933, when quotations went up sharply on the currency inflation talk at that time.
As the world relaxes from the tension of last September when the peace of one of its most important regions hung in perilous balance, many observers in this country not unnaturally raise the following question:
NEW ORLEANS, Sept. 19. -- The daily sales by Southern cotton markets have assumed large proportions, showing that spinners, both domestic and foreign, are now beginning to take liberally for their requirements. This they are no doubt encouraged to do by the comparatively low prices prevailing, not far from eight cents a pound under the prices ruling at this time last year.
U S Potters' Assn plans to ask Cong for adoption of different methods of valuation rather than increase in tariff
Do  mestic life is not without its drawbacks even in the desert. I was on one occasion invited to the tent of a minor chief, who was my guide and most humble servant.
NEWARK, N.J., April 19.--Eight hundred employes of the Domestic Sewing Machine Company's works were to-day thrown out of employment by the sudden shutting down ...
Stocks of domestic and foreign crude petroleum at the close of the week ended on July 3 totaled 308,744,000 barrels, according to data compiled by the Bureau of Mines.
Refreshed by a three-day rest, the Wall Street business community will enter upon the new week with little more information than it had when operations were suspended on Friday for the protracted week-end.
TO Bernhard Rabbino belongs the high credit of seeing the need for such an institution as the Domestic Relations Court, of working for it with patience, persistence, energy, enthusiasm and ability and of having such faith in his vision that he followed it until he had won through and had seen such a court made an integral part of the judicial system of the city.
Much has been said of the possibilities to be found in foreign lines of woolens, in case the domestic values for the new  season to be started later in the month prove too high in the opinion of those who buy.
A movement has been started in the toy industry of this country to improve the quality and standard of Americanmade toys from the standpoint of their artistic as well as their commercial value. The Toy Manufacturers of the United States of America, Inc., the ...
Domestic sugar futures, after touching new low levels early last week in all positions under the weight of a lower raw sugar market and unabated fears that the sugar quota system would be scrapped because of differences of opinion between Congress and the administration, staged a moderate recovery at the week-end.
Between 5 and 6 o'clock last evening a handsomely dressed lady, whose face bore evidences of violence, ran hurriedly into the Hoboken (N.J.) Police Station, and demanded that her husband, William Barry, be arrested for assaulting ...
Whatever diversity of opinion there is about municipal ownership of public utilities, there is none about the water supply of a city or village. This being conceded, a uniform price for it should follow as a matter of justice to any who must use it.
IT seems hard to believe that a large symphonic work of Tchaikovsky's has gone unrecorded until now, but there is no indication of any previous recording of the Manfred Symphony, Op. 58, here or abroad.
Tariff Comm completes study on conversion of rates from foreign to domestic value basis; results to be pub
The rise in the prices of domestic corporation bonds on the Stock Exchange last week was the largest of any week sice April 29, as measured by THE NEW YORK TIMES averages. The average gain of forty issues was 2.13 points, the rails leading with 2.66, with public utilities up 1.71 and industrials up 1.48.
Sens Mead and Lodge urge US foreign policy to guarantee adequate future supplies; Ickes lr on Brit-US supplies use cited
Mr. Lawrence Barrett acts in Buffalo this week.  Mr. Barry Sullivan acted this week in Providence.
Truman on foreign policy and Pres campaign, ss, Kan; signs W A White stamp bill before Emporia crowd; spends night in independence, Mo
President Roosevelt's proposal for allotments of domestic, insular and Cuban sugar was regarded in the sugar trade here as very favorable for Cuban sugars without working undue hardships on other producers. In general the belief is that if the plan can be placed in operation it should bring about a moderate increase in the price of sugar in this country.
WASHINGTON, June 23. -- Little change in domestic business activity in the week ended on June 16 was noted by the Department of Commerce in its weekly survey, made public today.
case said to he one of many conflicts between domestic law of U S and that of other countries
Sales of copper were negoutatea abroad yesterday at 13.80 to 14.10 cents a pound, c. i. f., European base ports. It is reported that a heavy volume of business was transacted around the lower level, while, in the afternoon, when the price was advanced above the 14cent level, there was only moderate activity.
WASHINGTON, July 8 (AP).--A defense of the American sugar industry's right to tariff protection and a warning against a Cuban monopoly of that product were voiced in a statement issued here today by E.A. Burguieres of New Orleans, President of the Domestic Sugar Producers' Association.
Retail business responded to the seasonal impetus and results generally were much better throughout the country last week, according to a special report prepared for THE NEW YORK TIMES by Kirby, Block  Co., resident buying office.
domestic business gains, but foreign trade is not expected to increase until after the Peace Treaty is signed
Herman P. Neilson is a sailor who lives at No. l,779 Lexington-avenue when he is not on the ocean.
Developments which indicated a further extension of the industrial recovery shaped the course of the security markets for a time yesterday, but realizing sales and speculation for the decline halted the advance in stocks in the middle of the day.
The steel syndicate reports reserve in the attitude of foreign customers but everlengthening home delivery terms. In May Germany's engineering industry as a whole was occupied to 94 per cent of capacity, but orders on the books of its leading branches far exceeded capacity.
In these times, of rapidly increasing domestic infidelity it would indeed be wise for the entire civilized world to grant a moment to a general stock-taking of its physical make-up and reserve strength so that it may know just how far it can afford to wander into the paths of social and other world-wide diseases of the human race.
American producers have under way construction of new plants for the production of various types of synthetic fibers, but little may be expected in the way of an increase of viscose process rayon yarns this year, it was said here yesterday.
IBM Corp sponsors seminar on uses and techniques of 'elec brain', Endicott, NY; experts see machines aiding man in many fields
H R Skifter sees need for accurate automatic electronic computer to avert traffic jams and make all-weather flying possible; says device must show exact location and route of each plane to control crews on ground
One of the worst blockades this Lackawanna Railroad has ever experienced occurred last evening, when both the in and out bound tracks were completely blocked from a little before 6 o'clock until late in the evening. The tie-up of traffic was caused by a freight train which left the rails in the tunnel under Bergen Hill.
Ct quashes computer-type gas pumps price-fixing indictments against Wayne Pump Tokheim Oil Tank & Pump, Gilbert & Barker Mfg Cos, Veeder-Root Inc and Gasoline Pump Mfrs Assn
Wayne Pump, Gilbert & Barker Mfg and Tokheim Oil Tank & Pump Cos, Veeder-Root, Gasoline Pump Mfrs Assn and 5 officials fined for price-fixing
US Navy's 2d attempt to shoot 'Viking' rocket 100 mi up fails, White Sands, NM; 33 mi reached; other shoots revd; automatic 'impact computer' to prevent rockets flying off reservation described
Justice Dept anti-trust div charges price-fixing by Wayne Pump, Tokhem Oil Tank & Pump and Gilbert & Parker Mfg Cos, Veeder & Root, Gasoline Pump Mfrs Assn and 5 individuals
WASHINGTON, Sept. 30.--Two instruments which, it is declared, will revolutionize the art of coast defense, are being exhibited in the Ordnance Department here, and will later be installed at Panama to control the fire of the big guns in the canal defenses.
HONOLULU, May 1 (Delayed) (U.P.) -- Rear Admiral C.A. Lockwood, commander of submarine forces of the Pacific Fleet, today presented decorations to three officers and nine enlisted men for submarine activities.
The commission announces an open competitive examination for salvage experts, to fill vacancies in the positions of Superintendent of Waste Material, at $1,800 a year, ...
Sixty-three New York motor boat men from among the six or seven hundred who spent their Monday evenings from February to April attending the free instructions of the United States Power Squadrons in the Stuyvesant High School auditorium passed the final examination a week ago in piloting and coastwise navigation.
The United States Civil Service Commission announces an open competitive examination for junior computer, for both men and women on Oct. 8 and 9, 1919. A vacany in the Bureau of Mines, Department of the Interior,  for duty at Pittsburgh, Pa., at $1,020 a year and vacancies in positions requiring similar ...
WASHINGTON, March 10.--Supply contracts valued at $2,557,026 were awarded during the week ended March 4 by twelve Federal agencies under the provisions of the Public Contracts Act, the Labor Department announced today.
MacMillan replies to Capt J E Bernier's assertion that Rear Adm Peary failed to reach North Pole in 1909
WASHINGTON, April 3.--Five of the nine men held by the coroner's jury as responsible for the collapse on January 28 of the Knickerbocker Theatre with the loss of ninety-eight lives, were indicated today ...
Taken, a 5-to-1 shot, galloped over a fast track today and finished in front of Dnieper and Sweet Adeline to take the feature event at the Fair Grounds. The winner was timed in 1:45 2-5 for the mile and a sixteenth and returned $12.60, $4.60 and $3.40.
Bright and Early, carrying the colors of R. Robertson, nosed out the Motor City Stable's well-liked Appealing in the Ted Baily Handicap at Oaklawn Park today. G. Watts's Panic Relief, which set the early pace over the Oaklawn course of a little less than six furlongs, finished third in a close stretch battle.
CORAL GABLES, Fla., April 6.-- A.L. Aste's Miss Happy triumphed by three lengths at Tropical Park today in the Ponce de Leon Purse. The race, for 3-year-olds, was at five and a half furlongs.
WASHINGTON, March 24.--Supply contracts valued at $4,016,518 wets awarded during the week ended March 18 by twelve Federal agencies under the provisions of the Public Contracts Act, the Labor Department announced today.
US Coast and Geodetic Survey experts say Peary records showed he was within 1.6 miles of Pole
Dr P Crawford Jr s on electronic devices possibilities for aeronautics, Calif Univ; Dr J Von Neumann on gen use
Gathering of upper atmosphere scientific data noted among purposes of projected US Army rocket research tests, White Sands, NM; chart of projected rocket flight
CORAL GABLES, Fla., April 1.-- Johnnie J., claimed by Miss C. Hardin out of his last race for $1,500, came right back in his first effort under her silks today to win the $2,000 allowance race for 2year-olds featuring the Tropical Park card.
During a day that found favorites beaten in the first four races but victorious in the last three, Joe W. Brown's 4-year-old Jewell Dorsett ran a splendid race to win the Kentwood Purse at the Fair Grounds today.
W. W. Adam's Pay Rack easily captured the feature event at the Fair Grounds today from a field of ten claimers over a mile and seventy yards. Pay Rack was coupled with Mrs. W. T. Westrope's Miney and Mrs. J, Corozzo's Portunus as the field entry.
Sabariel, owned by the Three D's Stock Farm, won the $2,000 added Jackson Handicap for 2-year-olds at the Fair Grounds today. Sabariel paid $14.40, $6.20 and $4.60 for $2 across the board.
" Bed Time and the Star" in "Topics of the Times" this morning relating to the method of Capt. Loose In ascertaining the time of night in the absence of a watch recalls the methods employed by the immortal "John Phoenix" during his celebrated survey of the route from "San Francisco to the Mission of Dolores," made in 1855.
CANBERRA, Sept. 4 (AP) -- Customs Minister Ben Courtice today announced thirty-two categories of goods the import of which has been banned in Australia as part of this Dominion's dollar saving drive.
Applications for the following positions in the city service will be opened Oct. 27 and will close Nov. 21. Details will be available at the office of the Municipal Civil Service Commission, Municipal Build ing, or in The City Record.
HIGH-FLOWN eulogies of Adolf Hitler were in order on Reich waves Sunday last when the fifty-second birthday of the German leader was celebrated. Marshal Hermann Goering shouted lusty praises of Hitler down the wave lengths while birthday bands thumped in the background, and people shouted.
WILLIAMS BAY, Wis., May 17 -- Preparation for an unscheduled appearance of advance streamers of the comet's tail caused activity last night among the entire staff of Yerkes Observatory. The statement by Prof. David Todd of Amherst University that the earth might enter the comet's tail at any moment was the principal occasion of the vigil.
WASHINGTON, Jan. 15. -- The President has nominated Charles H. Sherman of California to be Assayer of the Mint at San Francisco.
NEW HAVEN, Conn., March 25. -- Mrs. John McMahon was found dead on the floor of a bedroom in her home at Centerville, near here, by neighbors, to-day, while her husband was discovered lying on the bed and said to be under the influence of liquor. The woman's body was badly bruised and battered, and the rooms were strewn with broken furniture and crockery. The man was not injured, so far as could be seen.
WASHINGTON, Feb. 14.--Nine men were ordered held for the Grand Jury by the coroner's jury which brought in a verdict tonight in connection with the collapse of the roof of the Knickerbocker Motion Picture Theatre Jan. 8, resulting in the death of ninety-eight persons.
WASHINGTON, Jan. 3 -- The first of the formal dinners of the social season at the White House was given by President and Mrs. McKinley to-night, the members of the Cabinet and their wives being the guests of honor. Invited to meet them were members of the Senate and House, and a few other persons.
Something new in the way of a yarn and cloth quadrant, for determining the numbers of cotton yarns from a few yards and for obtaining the weight of cloth from a small sample, has just been put on the market here. It is of domestic origin, and is said to be superior to any foreign instrument yet produced for the purposes outlined above.
CHICAGO, July 3. -- Wheat was firm and active to-day under bullish advices from home and abroad, August closing 1 1/2@1 5/8c over yesterday. Longs had evidently become more hopeful during the night. This was apparent when the market opened. They had in mind the fact that the market had declined 11c from the top, and hence might be ready for a reaction.
SWARTHMORE, Dec. 29 (Associated  Press).--Fragmentary contributions to the mass of astronomical research, representing investigational of a year by scientists throughout the United States, were presented today to members of the American Astronomical Society at the opening sessions of their yearly meeting in Sproul Observatory at Swarthmore College.
Dr D P Willoughby rept in Human Biology (pub) on Mrs R G Pontico, fattest woman
WASHINGTON, D.C., March 28. -- Pleasant weather, a fair card, and the promise of good sport attracted a good-sized crowd to-day to the races of the Washington Jockey Club at Benning. A stiff breeze for twenty-four hours had so far dried out the track that it was dusty, although it was not fast.
WASHINGTON, March 24. -- The racing season of 1906 in the East will be inaugurated at Benning on Monday in a manner befitting the importance of the Spring meeting of the Washington Jockey Club. Many horses have been wintered at the track, and strings of thoroughbreds have been arriving every day for a week.
SANTA BARBARA, Calif., Aug. 8 (AP).--Dr. Henry Smith Pritchett,  distinguished American educator, tied here today at the age of 82.
HONOLULU, July 18. -- The yacht Lurline of the South Coast Yacht Club of Southern California, which sailed from San Pedro at noon on July 4 with the yachts Hawaii of the Hawaiian Yacht Club, the Lady Maud of the San Diego Yacht Club, and the Gwendolyn II. of the Seattle Yacht Club, in an ocean race to this port, was sighted at 8:42 o'clock this morning.
WASHINGTON, Aug. 1--Before the Hill Investigating Committee to-day M. N. Malone, Superintendent of Public Buildings at Pittsburg, was called by Mr Totton, and testified to a recent conversation with Mr. Stinemetz at Pittsburg, in ...
WASHINGTON, July 11. -- Prof. Simon Newcomb one of the foremost astronomers of the world, died here early this morning. His death was due to cancer, the first symptoms of which appeared last September. For some time his life had been despaired of by his physicians. His family was gathered at his bedside when the end came.
Professor David Todd, wellknown astronomer and former professor at Amherst College, died suddenly yesterday at his home in Madison Heights, Va., of a heart attack, according to word received ...
The Society of the Friends of Music, having given its regular concerts ever since it started them in the ballroom of the Ritz-Carlton Hotel, has been...
The cause of Science in America loses a brilliant and efficient supporter, in the death ol Prof. SEAas C. WALZgR, late of the Coast Bur.vey. Mr. WAt~RR was widely klnown as an ac.
YERKES OBSERVATORY, WILLIAMS BAY, Wis., May 20 -- A crowd of weary star gazers at the Yerkes Observatory picked out Halley's comet after sunset this evening from among the stars lying close to the western horizon. For fifty-six hours astronomers on duty at the top of the hill back of Williams Bay have slept at infrequent intervals and not much then.
Strikes are insignificant in causing stoppage of work in comparison with unemployment due to dearth of raw materials, lack of orders for output, insufficient transportation, lack of a properly balanced organization of industry, ...
Gross warns on congestion; Elec Engineers Amer Inst; estimates amt needed for system rehabilitation in 7-8 yrs; outlines immediately essential construction program for IRT, BMT and IND divs; attacks TWU pres M J Quill for insisting city continue to run own power plants rather than sell to Consol Edison Co; criticizes smallness of city appropriations, pol influences; new experimental train described; illus
IN Washington there is a machine that is a mechanical prophet. It foretells the tides all over the world. Every ship entering every port in the world has on board a table of tides. The Captain can show you where it will be high tide in every leading port of the world every day in the coming year.
WASHINGTON, Aug. 14 -- A list of 149 "critical" occupations has been established by the War Manpower Commission as a first priority draft deferment classification to supply the vital skills needed for war industry and supporting civilian activities.
WASHINGTON, Jan. 25, 1881. The receipts from internal revenue to-day  were $254,413.54, and from Customs $418,776.01.
WASHINGTON, Aug. 3, 1888. The Department of State has received a  telegram from the Consul-General at Matamoras, announcing that Mr. Shaw the gentleman who was assaulted while acting as Consul at Montery has almost recovered from his injuries.
THE next total eclipse of the sun takes place on Jan. 13, 1907, and will be visible in Central Asia. Although the track of the eclipse is wholly on land, yet the conditions are so unfavorable both as to weather probabilities and communication with these regions (Russian Turkestan and Mongolia) that scarcely an effort will be made by the astronomers of this country to view the eclipse.
From the Fort Smith Herald, 10th LIEUT. WHIPPLE'S SURVEYING PARTY--NO OBSTACLES ON THE FORT SMITH ROUTE. We beg leave to call the attention of our readers to the following article from the El-Amigo-Del-Pau, of the 20th of October last, in relation to Lieut.
THERE was never a school in the world before, either in design or scope, like that about to be started by the War Department.  Is is for the technical training of 100,000 men.
War Dept in Coolidge administration allegedly divulged army designs for defensive weapons to aid domestic industry in mfr of material for Eur countries; Navy helped Driggs Ordnance and Engineering Co get Turkish contract and sent representative to Colombia for alleged purpose of examining munitions purchased in U S; L L Driggs testifies that King George intervened to stop sale of guns to Poland by his firm, a competitor of Vickers Ltd
The " work or fight " regulations drawn up by Provost Marshal General Crowder go into effect tomorrow morning. These affect all men of draft age who are found to be engaged in unproductive occupations, and under the regulations it is the duty, after 12:01 o'clock tomorrow morning, of all persons connected with the administration
Racegoers at the Gravesend track yesterday awoke rather suddenly to the fact that the two-year-olds of James R. Keene's stable are playing an important part in the more valuable races for young horses, the direct cause of the awakening being the victory of the Keene bred gelding, Gretna Green, in the Manhanset Stakes.
Horses from the West were first in three of six races at the Sheepshead Bay course yesterday, two of the victories being in stake events. It was a marked feature of the most successful day that the visiting horsemen have had this season, "Barney" Schreiber's Missouri-bred three-year-old capturing the September, at a mile and three furlongs, and Woodford Clay's Kentucky-bred two-year-old Kentucky Beau handily taking the Waldorf, at six furlongs on the main course.
It is the intention of the Metropolitan Street Railway Bondholders' Reorganization Committee, if the Public Service Commission approves, to raise the naw money required to put the system on its feet again without placing any further fixed charge upon the property. This came out yesterday in response to inquiry in quarters where the views of the committee are known.
The office of The United Press Local News, whose service is taken by the principal newspapers of this city, is at 21-29 Ann Street. Information of public interest forwarded to that office will reach not only these local newspapers, but will be disseminated throughout the country by The United Press.
FIRST RACE--Purse $800; maiden 2-year-old fillies; Nursery Course; three furlongs (straightaway). Start good; won driving; place same. Went to post 2:01, off 2:07. Winner, ro. f., by Gino--Sun Fritters. Trainer, G. C. Winfrey. Time--0:34 4/5.
FIRST RACE--Purse $600; claiming; 3-year-olds; six furlongs. Start good; won driving: place same. Went to post 2:59, off 3:00 1/2 Winner, It. b. g., by In Memoriam-Balata. Trainer, D. Hardy. Time-1:13 3/5.
ALBANY, Jan. 25.--One hears a great deal of criticism, good, bad, and indifferent, about the new Capitol. Probably no other building, except the Capitol at Washington, has afforded so much food for talk since Government buildings began to be erected in this country. Admiration of the new Capitol, it must be admitted, is not expressed so loudly or by so many persons, as disapproval of it.
FORT SULLY, S.D., Dec. 27.--Reports of a massacre of settlers in this vicinity are unfounded. Squatters have been moving upon the reseravation in the lowlands along the Missouri, and the Cheyenne Sioux have made ugly threats, but the whites have not been molested. There are four computers of the Twelfth United States Infantry here, who are able to quell any outbreak in a few hours.
AT the New York zoo they tell of a farmer from Port Jervis who visited the place for the first time and spent two days seeing the animals. What amazed him most, he said, was "to think that an animal as large as an elephant could be interested in anything as small as a peanut."
RUSHING onward through space at the rate of many miles in every second of time, a visitor from the star depths is rapidly approaching the sun. It is already within the borderland of his realm, having passed the sentinel planet Neptune and is now half way between the orbits of Uranus and Saturn, moving at the rate of 320 miles a minute, in a direction two degrees south of Epsilon Geminorum.
TIME and again it has happened that a very frowsy woman and a very worthless man have had a most remarkable child. Men have sought to explain this miracle. They have spun theories and whittled suppositions in an attempt to reform them into the fact that they sought to explain -- that the child was infinitely greater than its parents.
JAN. 28 -- In steamship [???] of Manchester, for Liverpool -- Wm. Moran, [???] attached to the Metropolitan Record; [???] Vincent Vigil Escafora, H.H. Condon, [???] Louis Caret, Ramon Vitorero, Wm. Palmer [???], Mariano Augers, Jessie Computer, and others to the steerage.JAN. 28 -- In steamship [???] of Manchester, for Liverpool -- Wm. Moran, [???] attached to the Metropolitan Record; [???] Vincent Vigil Escafora, H.H. Condon, [???] Louis Caret, Ramon Vitorero, Wm. Palmer [???], Mariano Augers, Jessie Computer, and others to the steerage.
It seems as though history were likely to repeat herself in the matter of Oratorio. We all know that HANDEL started in life as an opera computer. He was also a manager, and imported artists into England, and knew what it was to encounter this hostilities, and the fierce partisanship of stock holders. As a matter of course he became bankrupt.
CARBONIC DRAWING.--A London paper describes a valueble invention--that of carbonic drawing. The material employed is pure charcoal, reduced to fine powder by friction upon paper. This is applied by a silk velvet stump, whose glossy surface is well adapted to hold any quantity of the charcoal duet, and to apply it to the paper in greater or less volume, at the will of the artist.
The following directory of candidates for the vacancies in the Municipal Court, Legislature and Board of Aldermen to be filled by New York City voters at the coming election has been compiled by the Citizens Union. It contains information concerning more than three hundred candidates.
editorial lauds pending reformsIt seemed right and eminently proper that the charge of Mr. Geo. D. MORGAN, of this City, of $70,000 to the Government for a few months' occasional service in purchasing steamers, sail vessels, &c., and its allowance by his brother-in-law, the Secretary of the Navy, should not be suffered to pass without further notice by Congress. Accordingly, we have a report from Mr. HALE, of the Senate Naval Committee, strongly condemnatory of the whole transaction, and insisting that the $70,000, unjustly taken by Mr. MORGAN, should be restored to the public Treasury, and a fair compensation or salary allowed to him as the agent of the Department, instead. It may be that Mr. MORGAN is beyond the reach of this persuasion to the right. Indeed, if, as we have heard intimated, he has already declined an opportunity to restore the money, afforded him by the Chairman or some member of the House Committee of Investigation before the publication of their report, we deem it quite probable that he will not surrender his more than questionable gains, now that all the facts, in their naked deformity, have been made public. Be this as it may, the question cannot be surrendered, in silence, as one of private conscience with Mr. MORGAN himself. He has deemed it proper to come before the public in a labored defence of the head of the Navy Department, who threw this $70,000 in his way, and incidentally, in his own justification, for clutching it. The shallow reasoning of his letter might pass for the little that it is intrinsically worth, but for the circumstance of the country and family relationship which surround the whole transaction, and the indignity to the common intelligence of the public, and especially of a commercial public like that of New-York, by the use of such logic.
--A wild child is roaming through the forests of Iowa, and exciting much discussion among the primitive naturalists of that section of the country. The nearest approach that has been made to its capture was to find the place where it had slept, and the remains of a frog, whereon it had supped. This latter fact seems very clearly to indicate a French parentage for the young Orson. He probably resembles a canard.  -- A wild child is roaming through the forests of Iowa, and exciting much discussion among the primitive naturalists of that section of the country. The nearest approach that has been made to its capture was to find the place where it had slept, and the remains of a frog, whereon it had supped. This latter fact seems very clearly to indicate a French parentage for the young Orson. He probably resembles a canard.
UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT, SUPREME, SUPERIOR AND COMMON PLEAS--Motions and decisions. ??There were no trial terms held in the Superior Court yesterday. All the Judges sat at General Term, to hear the argument in the case of the Mechanics' Bank vs. the new-York and New-Haven Railroad Company.
THE AMERICAN ALMANAC, AND REPOSITORY OF USEFUL KNOWLEDGE, for the year 1853. Boston, LITTLE, BROWN  CO. London, SAMPSON LOW, SON  Co. Paris, HECTOR BOSSANGE. The mischief that a work is capable of doing, when it is suffered to become the vehicle of unexposed errors, is proportioned to the reputation it may have attained for accuracy in matters of fact.
On the 10th inst., in the House of Representatives, Mr. SARGENT, from the Committee on Expenditures on Public Buildings, made the following report in response to a resolution of inquiry moved by Hon. Mr. WALL, of New-York:On the 10th inst., in the House of Representatives, Mr. SARGENT, from the Committee on Expenditures on Public Buildings, made the following report in response to a resolution of inquiry moved by Hon. Mr. WALL, of New-York:
The British Association for the Advancement of Science holds its thirtieth reunion at Oxford on the 27th of the present month. The names of its officers would seem to indicate a perfect entente cordiale between science and rank the President being Lord WROTLESLEY, with Lord DERBY for Vice-President.  -- The British Association for the Advancement of Science holds its thirtieth reunion at Oxford on the 27th of the present month. The names of its officers would seem to indicate a perfect entente cordiale between science and rank -- the President being Lord WROTLESLEY, with Lord DERBY for Vice-President.
Victorian aristocrats fall for poor people. Small, over-roasted Hollywood peanuts.One of the most intriguing characters in the English fiction of our times is Irene, the beautiful charmer who casts her magnetic spell over most of the masculine element in John Galsworthy's Forsyte tales. Irene is that luscious creature whom the men inevitably adore and the women regard with such suspicion as festers in envy and despair. So naturally every actress of lofty station in Hollywood has yearned for the role of Irene. Greer Garson has got her, at last.And, to be quite blunt about it, Miss Garson and M-G-M have done just about as cruelly by her as anyone could possibly do. For what they have done to the poor lady in "That Forsyte Woman," now on the Music Hall's screen, is make a production out of her and let the real lady go hang. They have dressed her in ultra-gorgeous costumes, posed her in plush Victorian sets and filmed her in lavish Technicolor, probably the most lavish you have ever seen. They have marched pompous gentlemen up to her and had them profess their ardent love. And then they have gracefully retired her into the snugness of a cut-and-dried romance.The fault is not wholly Miss Garson's. She puts on the glamour act, yes, but the script is a lot of lifeless rhetoric and the direction by Compton Bennett is absurd. Take, for instance, one scene in a horsecab being drawn through the dark London streets with Irene and Young Jolyon Forsyte in it, engaged in a serious, heartfelt talk. This scene, which is basic to the forming of a major decision by Irene, should be subtly performed and lighted for the somberness of place and mood. That is as evident a moment for genuine staging as there is in the film. And yet Mr. Bennett has planted Miss Garson and Walter Pidgeon (as Young Jolyon) right in the middle of the cab seat and has lighted them in dazzling radiance. With his camera at a medium-close shot, he has then photographed the scene, with the two jawing stiffly at each other like a couple of dummies on a ventriloquist's lap. That is but one indication of the artificiality of this film.There are others, such as a lushly painted backdrop to represent the English countryside and a half dozen wooden performances by over-dressed members of the cast. Mr. Pidgeon, who plays Irene's salvation, is perhaps the least depressing of the lot, mainly because he has little to do until he steps in toward the end. But Errol Flynn as the lady's lofty husbandthat "man of property," Soames Forsyte  is laughably rigid and pontifical and Robert Young as the suitor, Bosinney, is just plain dull.
A Los Angles Newsman Finds a Woman's missing sister.As a company which has had its cameras probe into various rackets heretofore, Universal-International does not surprise us, now that it is investigating the black market in babies in "Abandoned Woman," which arrived at the Criterion yesterday. But despite the advertisements, the newcomer is far from being "the year's most sensational picture." Sensational is hardly the word, since it is, in the main, a briskly paced thriller that merely indicates an insidious evil and then proceeds along conventional melodramatic lines to the climactic smashing of a baby adoption ring.As such it is a routine cops-and-mobsters number. Director Joe Newman moves his cast quickly, if not with too much imagination, through authentic Los Angeles locales from the opening, when his distraught heroine goes to the police seeking her missing sister and her baby, through the ultimate clean-up of the gang. In between, the usual number of informers, villains, and cops strew and follow clues and a handsome reporter and a forthright district attorney are in the vanguard lending willing assists to the anxious lady.Gale Storm is natural and engaging as the harried young lady who manages to rescue her niece, if not her sister. However, Dennis O'Keefe, as the brash, fearless and charming newspaper man and her romantic partner, seems closer to fiction than fact. Jeff Chandler turns in a competent characterization as the D. A. as do Marjorie Rambeau, as the dowager leader of the ring preying on unwary unwed mothers; Will Kuluva, as her sadistic henchman; Raymond Burr, as a double-dealing private sleuth, and Meg Randall, as an expectant mother who helps expose the gang. To be redundant about it, however, the acting isn't sensational either.
There would be many a WAAC (Women's Auxiliary Army Corps) or WAC (Women's Army Corps) who would take issue with Nona Brown's article, "The Forces Find Woman Has a Place." Present volunteers get more advantages and less discomfort than the first volunteers of July, 1942, who obviously entered for patriotic reasons.
THE women of the United States have now secured the vote and, like their sisters across the Atlantic, they are wondering what, if anything, is to  be done with it. Various proposals are made, of which perhaps the most challenging is that of Mrs. Belmont, the President of the...
This is the first of a series of four reports which will cover as many types of spring fashions -- women's fashions from 14 to 40 (illustrated here); young sophisticates, sizes 10 to 20; juniors, sizes 7 to 15, and teenagers, aged 8 to 16.
WHILE Japanese military leaders talk of upholding the national prestige, Japan is well on the way to losing something that many in nonmilitary circles consider more precious -- the traditional Japanese woman.
JERSEY CITY, N. J., Dec 24 --An autopsy is to be performed here to determine the cause of death of Mrs. Rita Murray, 32 years old, of 184 Mercer street, this city. Her frozen body was found yesterday morning inside the gate of a stable yard at 40 Gilchrist Street.
I wonder if George Lawton reviewed the statistics of the last century before writing "Proof That She Is the Stronger Sex"?
WOMAN'S place is at the ring side. This is the dic  tum of 1921, at least for a part of New York "society."
The contrast between the scenes in Oklahoma forty-one years ago, as recalled by pictures in The Daily Oklahoman of Monday of last week and those of the next morning.
A serious case of involuntary sabotage will soon be referred to the women of the nation to be solved. Every day accidents are claiming valuable war workers and adding to the strain on medical facilities. As two out of every three such mishaps are non-industrial, much of the blame centers on the home.
BOOKS about beautiful women have been written  before, but this one has its own original pattern. Often the beauty is made a cruel, rapacious or abnormally stupid being.
What happened in the Illinois Republican primary beyond the fact that RUTH HANNA McCORMICK overwhelmingly won the nomination from Senator DENEEN? The forecasters were so wrong that analysts begin as suspect.
MR. CHAIRMAN, known to your intimate friends as G.B.S., it is a very great satisfaction to me that it was to several millions of people that you uttered the sentiment that birth control has abolished the children, "got rid of the children" was, I think, the exact phrase you used.
A woman of varied accomplishments, sterling character and public usefulness of a high order recently died in India, the Maji Sahiba, mother of Bahadur JUNG, ruler of Bharatpur. If she had been a member of a European royal family, or an American woman prominently engaged in philanthropic and edu- ...
H M Kinney, named to fill G A Wooster unexpired term, will be State's 1st woman High Sheriff
WOMAN is an interesting subject, in the opinion of Arnold Bennett. She interests him, at any rate, so  much that he has written a book about her, entitled "Our Women."
In the unofficial Democratic State Convention the activities, demeanor, political talent, good nature and good sense of the woman delegates were particularly observable, and were observed simply because in the Bast the...
Mildred Helen McAfee, president of Wellesley College, has been a member at large of the Educational Council, which, with the Bureau of Naval Personnel, has drawn up the plans for the Woman's Reserve in the Navy. Her appointment as lieutenant commander of the Reserve was predicted nearly a month ago.
It is almost cruel to recall the nineteenth century wit who offered to solve the suffrage question. It would suffice, he said, to permit all women to note after thirty--the sly inference being that none would qualify.
H Goessl 1st woman sentenced to death under Explosives Law in connection with attempt to kill A Strehle of Heimwehr; M Wild also sentenced
Mrs J T Pratts' work in teaching non-English speaking women cited in ed on election as N Y C Alderman
NEW ORLEANS, May 3 (AP). -- Questioned by Federal agents, the attractive red-haired girl friend of Alvin Karpis was believed to have "talked" today. But there was no word coming from the inquisitors concerning what they obtained from the woman of mystery.
T. D. Osborne says that Mme A. A. Bitsenko signed Brest-Litovsk treaty without reading it, lr
FRAMED in the blue doorway of La Marseillaise, the French seamen's canteen at 789 Second Avenue, stood Mme. Eugene Gentil, a founder and vice president. Her blue eyes glinted merrily behind harlequin glasses as she welcomed a group of women wearing the poilu-blue uniform of the auxiliary she heads -- wives of Free French War Veterans.
The 2,159 women who were enrolled in medical schools in the autumn of 1948 have reason to follow with a peculiarly personal interest the ceremonies with which Hobart and William Smith Colleges and the New York Infirmary are honoring today the memory of Elizabeth Blackwell, America's first woman physician.
Mrs D R Blumberg, Md sec's wife, convicted of perjury in connection with nominating petitions for State election candidates
DESPITE the favorable tone of your recent review of my  novel, "The Other Woman," your presentation of it as a "source novel" derived from Stevenson's allegory, "Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde" impresses me that your reviewer did not grasp the story's inner imperative.
In one of the last public addresses of Mrs. Pennypacker, formerly president of the General Federation of Women's Clubs, she said that no great body of women can work together without showing some tolerance and that women's clubs have been teaching women "how to differ in opinion without letting personal heat get in"though men have' not entirely learned the lesson through ages' of practice.
MISS MARIE ANTOINETTE CZAPLICKA, F.R.G.S., F.R.A.I.,  just now near the end of a lecture tour in America, has the unique record of having been the only woman member of anthropological expeditions into the heart of the Caucasus and Siberia.
ed recalls belief of Sen Borah that question should be settled by and through the action of each State for itself
J. Allison says Congress should decide against her eligibility to sit in House of Reprs., letter
Early suds.Life, as the song writers have already pointed out, is so mysterious that it may not be altogether safe to question the realism of the melancholy events described in "Mary Stevens, M. D.," which is at the Strand. Kay Francis, in the new film, is a woman physician who has a startling amount of trouble preserving a professional detachment toward the primitive emotions.When Dr. Andrews, her suppressed desire, marries the daughter of a political boss and reveals himself as an unhallowed rogue by performing operations on children while under the influence of whisky and also by getting mixed up in a political scandal, she continues to find it impossible to live without him. The result of several illicit rendezvous with the fellow is that Miss Stevens, now a great baby specialist, finds herself in an interesting condition and has to run off to Paris. On the boat coming back the baby dies of infantile paralysis. The good doctor is on the point of hurling herself out of a fashionable hotel when Dr. Andrews bursts in with the glad tidings that he has obtained a divorce and can now make an honest woman of her.This is as sad a story as the cinema has offered recently, and it is a disagreeable circumstance which makes it necessary to point out that it also is one of the shabbiest of the Hollywood contemplations of the medical profession.Although the story, written with proper sincerity, might have been an interesting study of the problems confronting a woman physician in her work, this fatuous exhibit does not come within miles of dramatic integrity. There are the customary operating-room scenes and, for humorous sidelights, there is the customary flip and caustic nurse.Both Kay Francis and Lyle Talbot (the latter as the vacillating Dr. Andrews) perform competently, and there is one brief and excellent bit of acting by Una O'Connor, the English actress, who appeared as the cockney wife in "Cavalcade."
After all these years Helen MacKellar has taken up screen acting. As the embittered drudge who dwells morbidly among her memories of operatic triumphs, she has a roomy and full-bodied part in "The Past of Mary Holmes," at the Seventh Avenue Roxy. For this is "The Goose Woman" of blessed memory, the eccentric old lady in her ramshackle farmhouse, drinking furiously to forget her lost fame, feverishly playing the old phonograph records of her great arias to remember it.In the current version the narrative looks suspiciously like all the other shoddily carpentered melodramas devoted to the triumph of the maternal instinct, and in fact it is not exactly an argument for the continued resurrection of these curios of the cinema. But "The Goose Woman" has a solid story to tell, and with the assistance of Miss MacKellar and a capable cast this film tells it solidly.Eric Linden as the boy has been shrewdly cast. He gives the part sincerity and the quality of helplessness and anguish that it needs. Jean Arthur is better than usual as the girl, and Richard Gallagher as a reporter helps keep the story this side of bathos.Songs and Humor.John Fogarty, an Irish tenor from the radio, and Roy Smeck, who can lure some surprising orchestral effects from a mandolin and banjo, are in the stage show. For humor there are a pair of bouncing clowns named the Monroe Brothers.Dave Schooler and his band, the Gae Foster Girls and various variety acts complete the stage program.After all these years Helen MacKellar has taken up screen acting. As the embittered drudge who dwells morbidly among her memories of operatic triumphs, she has a roomy and full-bodied part in "The Past of Mary Holmes," at the Seventh Avenue Roxy. For this is "The Goose Woman" of blessed memory, the eccentric old lady in her ramshackle farmhouse, drinking furiously to forget her lost fame, feverishly playing the old phonograph records of her great arias to remember it.In the current version the narrative looks suspiciously like all the other shoddily carpentered melodramas devoted to the triumph of the maternal instinct, and in fact it is not exactly an argument for the continued resurrection of these curios of the cinema. But "The Goose Woman" has a solid story to tell, and with the assistance of Miss MacKellar and a capable cast this film tells it solidly.Eric Linden as the boy has been shrewdly cast. He gives the part sincerity and the quality of helplessness and anguish that it needs. Jean Arthur is better than usual as the girl, and Richard Gallagher as a reporter helps keep the story this side of bathos.Songs and Humor.John Fogarty, an Irish tenor from the radio, and Roy Smeck, who can lure some surprising orchestral effects from a mandolin and banjo, are in the stage show. For humor there are a pair of bouncing clowns named the Monroe Brothers.Dave Schooler and his band, the Gae Foster Girls and various variety acts complete the stage program.
Ed on proposal to establish fellowship for advanced study of mathematics in memory of E Noether
Only those who have watched death creeping hungrily toward them can know what goes on in the human heart. Mrs. Edgar Ritchie knows. She, her husband and her three-year-old boy are among the rescued passengers of the Bermuda Sky Queen brought to port yesterday on the stout ship Bibb.
Amoral woman's office climb. Well-done drama with not-so-credible ending."Baby Face," the picture which recently aroused the ire of Will Hays and also was responsible for the resignation of Darryl Zanuck as assistant to Jack Warner at the Warner Brothers' studios, is now on exhibition at the Strand. It is an unsavory subject, with incidents set forth in an inexpert fashion.Barbara Stanwyck acts Lily Powers, who becomes known as Baby Face. She is presumed to have good intentions, but they are discouraged by her father, who keeps a disreputable speakeasy. A cobbler named Cragg, presumed to be an omnivorous reader, tells Lily of her beauty and the power she might have over men. This inspires Lily to leave for New York, where through a flirtation she succeeds in finding employment.Hoping for promotion from her position, she uses her wiles on a department manager and subsequently attracts the attention of the cashier, a young man named Stevens, who is engaged to marry Ann Carter, daughter of the first vice president. Evidently there is not a decent man in this banknot one who scorns to have an affair with this tarnished Lily. Carter himself becomes infatuated with her and one day he is shot and killed by Stevens, who ends his own life.It is a pretty state of affairs when the directors of the bank are faced with the scandal, but later they have more anxious moments, for Trenholm, who is made president of the institution, encounters Lily in Paris, where she has been sent to work in the bank's branch after her threat to sell her story to a newspaper. Trenholm becomes so smitten with Lily's beauty that he marries her.In the course of the closing episodes, Lily, who has a fortune in jewelry and $500,000 in cash, at first decides to leave for Paris again, although she knows that her husband needs the money to save himself from imprisonment. Once aboard the steamship, however, she suffers a change of heart and is supposed to do her one good deed of the story.
Woman convict plans escape from San Quentin.When a reformer and a dashing female bank bandit fall in love, their home life may be somewhat as illustrated in the lingering finale of "Ladies They Talk About," which was unreeled at the Capitol yesterday. After a torrid argument in which Nan, the gun-girl, accuses her beloved of frustrating a jail-break in which two of her pals were killed, she loses her temper, draws a gun from her handbag and shoots him. "I didn't mean to do that," Nan remarks a moment later as David Slade falls to the floor with a bullet in his shoulder. "Why, that's all right, Nan," responds her husband-to-be. "It's nothing."The story is certainly on the violent side of drama, but not all of its entertainment is as wild as that "romantic interlude." A good part of the action takes place in a women's reformatory where Nan is an inmate, that young woman having arrived behind bars with the assistance of her friend, the reformer. Torn between those difficult twin urges of love and duty, David decides to heed both, and he therefore enlivens Nan's dreary life in prison with love notes, visits and promises of a speedy parole.It is in the prison scenes that the film provides some interesting drama. "Ladies They Talk About" is effective when it is describing the behavior of the prisoners, the variety of their misdemeanors, their positions in the social whirl outside, their ingenuity in giving an intimate domestic touch to the prison, and their frequently picturesque way of exhibiting pride, jealousy, vanity and other untrammeled feminine emotions.Maude Eburne, Lillian Roth, Dorothy Burgess and a Negress whose name is listed as Mme. Sul-te-Wan give this part of the picture a diversity of mood and character. In the leading rles Barbara Stanwyck and Preston Foster are capable, but the story does not permit them many believable moments.On the Stage.An abbreviated production of Ziegfeld's "Show Boat" is on the stage. Helen Morgan and Jules Bledsoe sing the Hammerstein-Kern songs in their dependable fashion, and yesterday's audiences applauded them heartily. The varied scenes of the play have been mounted with accuracy and color, but the production misses the humor that Edna May Oliver gave to its recent revival.Harland Dixon, Paul Keast and the Jubilee Singers, headed by Robert Raines and Evangeline Lawson, are features of the large cast.
Perry, A, hurt; woman killed when auto runs into path of L I R R train
Lone jury holdout in murder trial. Most rewarding, and viva Edna May! Pounce.Edna May Oliver gives a most amusing performance in the Mayfair picture, "Ladies of the Jury," in which she appears as Mrs. Livingston Baldwin Crane, a society woman, who for the first time sits as a juror. It happens to be a trial for murder, in which a young actress, named Mrs. Gordon, is accused of shooting her elderly husband.Eleven jurors have been accepted when Mrs. Crane is called to the stand. She has little or no idea about court procedure and is especially glad to observe that the judge is a friend. It is quite plain that a few more women on the jury like Mrs. Crane would drive the judge to distraction, for she insists in shaking his hand and on asking the names of the prosecutor and the counsel for the defendant. She is accompanied to court by her maid and chauffeur and once she takes her seat among the jurors she desires to know how long the trial will last, explaining that she wants to know whether her chauffeur should wait for her.When the witnesses are called, Mrs. Crane persists in asking questions, and a friend or no friend, the judge, now quite irate, instructs, her to stand when addressing the court. Her idea of interrogating those who testify is followed by other members of the jury, but the fun is even keener later when the body of twelve good women and men true go into a room to deliberate.The scenes of the discussion among the twelve persons contain heaps of good humor. When the first ballot is taken all are for conviction of the defendant except Mrs. Crane. The foreman waxes impatient with Mrs. Crane, for she, in his opinion, is delaying matters. Mrs. Crane, however, is more than a match for him and gradually she wins over one juror after another, until the foreman finds himself and a stalwart woman known as Miss Lily Pratt, the only, two who vote "guilty."Through a rather adroit twist, the foreman and Miss Pratt are forced to change their opinions and Mrs. Crane has every reason to believe that she as a member of the jury is mightier than the prosecutor or the lawyer for the unhappy defendant.Although this picture is infinitely superior to Miss Oliver's last film, "Fanny Foley Herself," she is a clever enough player to deserve even a better story. But this film has a number of really funny lines and creditable portrayals are given by those in the supporting cast, including Robert McWade, who impersonates the judge; Ken Murray, who figures as a juror with a gift of the gab, and Mayme Mixter, who wisecracks to her heart's content.
Funds raised for furnishing inside of new clubhouse to be erected on W 57th St, N Y C
THE pattern of a woman's life today is more like the pattern of a man's life than it used to befifty years ago. It includes the home and the human relationships which center therein; it includes work, often outside the home; it includes a wide range ...
letter on Elizabeth Woodbridge's article in The Atlantic Monthly on "The Unknown Quality in the Woman Problem,"
jury includes 2 women, 1 is foreman, ct orders 24-hr guard over panel owing to death threats against Paris
One accustomed to the wholesome treatment of new books in your columns reads with some surprise Mr. Walter Lippman's recent review of Earl Barnes's "Woman in Modern Society." And for the following reasons:
In your issue of today there appears a statement by Mrs. Charles H. Sabin with regard to women voters and the declaration of their age, but I have a more serious reason than that for not voting at the coming elections.
PITTSBURGH, Pa., Feb. 26. -Miss Mary O'Connell, 45 years old, a buyer for a Youngstown (Ohio) store, told her story of tonight's train wreck here from a bed in Presbyterian Hospital. Her back and knee were injured.
IT is difficult to write entertainingly on the subject of anti-suffrage. Apparently, wit, esprit, and epigram flow less readily in the vicinity of the endangered home and hearth, and the zest of the passage at arms, the keen enjoyment of the rapier-like thrust, is all to the ardent protagonist.
Margarete Bieber becomes Germany's first woman prof of archaeology, receiving title of Extraordinary Prof from Univ of Giessen
T Fuer, M Mannon, L Ferrano, D De Latto convicted of assault in June, 1923, surrender
MARSEILLES, France, Aug. 2. -- Mrs. Marion Hay was one of the first Americans to reach here from Madrid since the revolution's outbreak. She was among a group of Americans, most of them students, who arrived here on the cruiser Quincy from Valencia after a long trip from the capital by train.
Skeleton of woman found in woods near Northport, identified as that of R E Woods, patient who wandered away
TOKIO, Tuesday, March 8 (10 A.M.) -- As news filters in from the outlying districts the magnitude of last night's earthquake grows, although the death of only one white person has been reported.
The anniversary ball of the American Woman's Association took place last night at the Plaza in celebration of the twelfth anniversary of the founding of the association. Mrs. Deas Murphy was ...
"The Masked Woman," a play adapted by Kate Jordan from the French of Charles Mere, will come to the Eltinge Theatre on Friday or Saturday night of next week. Helen MacKellar and Lowell Sherman head the cast. "East of Suez," accordingly, will end its engagement at the Eltinge this week.
WHITE PLAINS, N.Y., Aug. 27. -- Mrs. Mary Gantz, 34 years old, of 730 East 225th Street, New York City, died early today in St. Agnes's Hospital here of injuries she received when the automobile in which she, her husband and young son were passengers toppled down an embankment north of Old Mamaroneck Road on the Hutchinson River Parkway.
Editorial questions Sargent conclusion that woman of today is more mannish in stature than her mother
L Petry sworn in as US asst surgeon gen in Pub Health Service, 1st woman to hold such office
I would like to suggest to your correspondent, "One Done," that in Mr. Frederic Ladd's novel, "The Woman Pays" very possibly the author intended his story to convey that of the two who transgressed the moral law it was the woman who paid the penalty, and not so particularly the man, I do not see that the husband paid -- at least in the end.
GOSHEN, Aug. 20.--Announcement was made today in Firthcliffe, Orange County, that President Harding had just appointed Mrs. Nellie MacMorran of Firthcliffe postmaster for a term of four years. Mrs. MacMorran is said to be the first woman appointed by President Harding in New York State to take charge of a post office.
SUGGESTIONS of names of Louisiana women for the "Shaft of Fame" planned by the National Woman's Foundation at Washington, have served to recall the ca  reer of Mrs. Eliza J. Nicholson, for many years owner and director of the New Orleans Daily Picayune.
INTUITIVE perception and woman's capacity, or otherwise, to take advantage of it, has formed the sub  ject of lengthy discussions in the columns of The London Daily Express, the ...
MONTESANO, Wash., Jan. 28.--A woman was selected as a temporary juror late today in the trial of eleven alleged members of the I.W.W. charged with murder in connection with the Centralia shootings on Armistice Day.
Prof. W.I. THOMAS of that institution of up-to-date enlightenment, the Chicago University, has made woman his life study. So did Tom MOORE, as he tells us in his verses about the light that lies in women's eyes. But Prof. THOMAS'S point of view is different. He treats of woman anthropologically and intellectually.
Backs Freeholder E B Gorham for renomination in Bergen Co, N J, despite regular Repub organization's endorsing A Knox
UP THE Erie twenty miles or so and out of the mosquito belt," said a man who spends his Sundays wherever his suburban friends give him a chance, "is Westwood, N.J., and a very pleasant town it is, with lovely women composing its society, and they are as sensible as they are pretty.
HONEOYE FALLS, N.Y., July 7--Mrs. Catherine Densmann, oldest resident of this community and widow of Adam Densmann, Civil War veteran, died yesterday at the home of a daughter, Mrs. Doray Yarney. Her age was 99.
Speaker CANNON'S reason for not favoring woman suffrage is gallant and complimentary to woman. It will not convince the suffragists. If every woman should control two votes, her own and some man's, that would merely double the work of the veto counters. The electoral situation would be unchanged.
In the formulation of grievances by the committee of the passengers of the belated steamer St. Louis occurred the following phrase: "Providence has indeed been extremely kind to us, and we are extremely grateful that through her tender mercies we have thus far been spared a calamity too horrible to contemplate."
Senators Vest, Quay, and Penrose, while waiting on a corner near the Capitol for a street car a few days ago, became involved in an amusing discussion as to the gender of the public conveyance which was approaching them from around the corner.
French Min of Marine and French Acad in dispute with sailors and navy over gender of ship
THE old and historic City of Nassau, New Providence, Bahama Islands, experienced quite a sensation about the middle of March in the matter sponges. The principal industry of Nassau is the gathering, curing, and selling of sponges, and quite a large fleet of schooners and many colored men, composing their crews, are engaged in gathering them around the neighboring islands.
A Correspondent in the interior of this State, whom I suspect to be a teacher, so earnestly requests a reply to some objections which she urges against my views of grammar, than I return once more to the subject. Gender, case, voice, mood, and tense, as she understands them, have nothing to do with the forms of words, but are "attributes given to nouns and ...
witness F Gender fails to identify Abello as person bending over victim's body, July 4; witness F Nielsen identifies Abello
About 1,000 women gathered in the Vanderbilt Hotel, Park Avenue and Thirty-fourth Street, yesterday to hear some of the women delegates to the Republican Convention tell some of the things that went on there, and also to learn that the Republican National Committee, male gender, planned to have a Vice Chairman, feminine gender, pretty soon.
LONDON, Feb. 22 (AP) -- A Reuters [British news agency] correspondent, writing from "somewhere in Ethiopia," said today that the Italians were retreating from the "outlying escarpments" about Burye and Gondar, in the Lake Tana area. Burye is about eight-five miles south of Lake Tana and 160 miles northwest of Addis Ababa; Gender is north of the lake.
Reds clash with Republicans over F Gondor's attack on Horthy regime, at meeting in N Y C; police quell row
PITTSBURGH, Jan. 28 (AP).--The Carnegie Hero Fund Commission announced today the award of bronze medals to five residents of New York State in recognition of deeds of heroism.
Arrives at Bender Abbas, Persia, on flight from Germany to U S via Orient in Caspar biplane Germania
Spring fever, feminine gender, involves the sudden desire to rush downtown and invest in something frilly.
Green & Gensler charge that H Broderick and L Crawford violated contract for Gang's All Here
Presumably when a woman writer disguises both her identity and her sex by using either a masculine pseudonym or one that may denote either gender, she is flattered when reviewers call her "Mr." She must desire her writing to be taken for a man's work. We have known a thoroughly competent reviewer to call Miss Violet Paget "Mr. Vernon Lee" or "Mr. Lee" a dozen times in the course of a review of moderate length.
I observe that paragraphists, mostly of the female gender, scarcely ever mention Mr. Browning's name without an expression of surprise at his personal appearance.
Scoring in every period, the University of Toronto sextet beat the University of Montreal, 6--1, today in an International Intercollegiate League game.
Kansas is at it again, demanding more teachers from the East. The teachers Kansas wants are always of the feminine gender. We have Chicago authority for believing that it entices them out there by the hundreds, and they go guilelessly with the idea of instructing youth in the cardinal virtues and the rudiments of knowledge, only to be snapped up and married by the young farmers.
In these days of nature-faking anecdotes the following, which bears the stamp of truth, will be welcomed by all animal lovers. A phonograph owner living near Cheat Mountain, Randolph County, West Va., had two pets of which he was very fond. One was a Makaki monkey and the other a large and fierce-tempered cat of male gender.
HERE is another semi-clinical romance for the psychiatric set. It avoids the usual Freudian jargon, leaving label-minded laymen to supply their own assortments of ids and psychoses. Movie-going analysts, it is clear, particularly of the feminine gender, will delight in it.
This is an answer to the reader who signs herself Newport. I attribute the feminine gender without hesitation, as women are not apt to spare each other! Although Newport has read "The House of Mirth" and "hopes to forget it," it seems to have made it sufficient impression upon her to call forth such a torrent of ill-merited abuse.
BOSTON, Mass., Oct. 16. -- William N. Wood, President of the American Woolen Company, does not know how many automobiles he owns or how many chauffeurs he employs, according to his statement on the witness stand in the Suffolk Superior Court to-day. Mr. Wood appeared as defendant in a suit for $2,000 brought against him by Henry W. Patterson of the jewelry firm of Smith, Patterson  Co.
" A Knight for a Day," the musical piece offered last night at Wallack's Theatre, bears at least a strong and entirely proper family resemblance to the original "Mam'selle Sallie," seen last season at the Grand Opera House and the New York Theatre. However, a good deal more than the gender of the title has been changed.
Some time since Henry Herrmann, a wealthy furniture manufacturer, was arrested for abandonment on complaint of Mrs. Elizabeth Gensler, who alleged that he was her husband, John Gensler, a cabinet-maker, to whom she had been married in London in 1868.
THE screen is fashion's show window." These are the words that one of Hollywood's outstanding designers used in talking with the writer. No doubt about it. Each star as she plays her pact -- here we are concerned only with stars of the feminine gender -- is an exponent of style, whether she be playing a modern role or one that belongs to a historical period.
I have several letters which show that come, at least, of the readers of THE TIMES have suddenly awakened to the fact that English grammar is a dead body to which they have long been bound, but who also seem to lack the courage to cut themselves loose from it.
PARIS. THE French were right to put "la mode" in the feminine gender, in their eminently logical language, for she certainly is all woman; even when, as this season, she prides herself upon having turned practical and economical with a vengeance, she is subject to a few delightful inconsistencies that are not the least among the secrets of her charm.
letter by W. H. Rinehart stating that U. S. Govt. and German Govt. should be referred to in the singular
A PERUSAL of the annual forecast, liberally displayed all over these pages, indicates that, in prospect, Gladys ...
IT was on a Dyckman subway express. The guard, one of the oldest in the service of the Interborough, pointed  to three soldiers of the national army Who had just surrendered their seats to three middle-aged women.
With the fall of Paris communication with the French capital and German-occupied areas in Northern France has been interrupted and messages for other French points are subject to delay, since priority is given to the heavy volume of official government traffic, it was announced yesterday by the communications companies.
WILLIAMSTOWN, Mass., Oct. 27. -- The Tufts football team kept its unscored on and undefeated record intact today by conquering the Williams eleven, 7 to 0.
Women's Div of First Assembly Dist Repub Club of Bklyn votes aid for Mrs F E S Knapp, at meeting
HE WAS an elderly man, very disreputable in appearance, and showing all the signs of having been on a spree. His niece, whom he had not seen for some years, had come across him on Twenty-eighth Street quite by accident and had taken him home and given him "a square meal."
Taking advantage of the Equity ruling permitting shows to lay off the week before Christmas, "Nina Rosa" will suspend performances next week. The run will be resumed at the Majestic Theatre on Dec. 22.
NEW BRUNSWICK, N.J., Oct. 20. -Rutgers put in an easy afternoon on Nielson Field today, launching its final preparations for the Lehigh game Saturday. Head Coach Wallace, who was called home during the game with Cornell at Ithaca by the death of his father, was absent from practice, and Assistant Coaches Raub and Neuschefer centred their work on building up the line's offensive tactics, while the backs had light work at forward passing.
A diminutive Skye terrier of the female gender skipped about the desk in front of Justice  Duffy, at the Jefferson Market Police Court, during an examination before that magistrate to decide her ownership.
Winter comes apace, and with it that old befuddling question. I think "The Man Behind the Gun" should make way for his notable confrere. It is now "The Man Behind the Paper" who has the stage. Dear reader, you know who he is. If you are of the gender feminine and have hung to a strap -- listen what I say -- "if" you have -- then you know him. Oh, yes, you know him.
CAIRO, Egypt, Feb. 6 (AP) -- British Middle East Headquarters issued this communique today:
CLEVELAND, Sept. 20. -- Philadelphia won a pitchers' battle from Cleveland today, 4 to 1. Morton and Bender allowed one hit each prior to the eighth inning, only three members of the two teams having reached first up to that time. In the eighth Strunk walked and Oldring was safe on Johnston's error. Schang tripled and Bender singled.
ST. PAUL, Minn., May 12. -- The Pioneer Press says today: "It appears that the Lusitania horror could not have been perpetrated as it was without collusion in this country. At least persons in New York had knowledge of it, and presumably gave aid and counsel in its execution.
The granting of scholarship awards to forty-four city employes by the Mayor's Council on Public Service Training in cooperation with the division of general education of New York University was announced yesterday by the Municipal Civil Service Commission.
Fluctuations on the Cotton Exchange again held within narrow limits yesterday to end a quiet session with a gain of 1 to a loss of 2 points. Reports of a tropical disturbance in the Gulf approaching the Louisiana coast tended to engender ...
NELLIE was born on the old plantation, gone to pieces after the war, and Nellie had four long legs and a thin, lanky body, and was a striped and orange tawny tiger cat of the masculine gender. The incongruity of his baptismal name was owing to the fact that his young mistress was but 5 years old, and liked the namo; therefore the little kitten, received it, sex and reason to the contrary.
PALM BEACH, Fla., Dec. 16--The tempo of the Palm Beach season is increasing daily with the approach of the Christmas holidays, for which many-house parties are being organized and much entertaining is in prospect.
An entry of at least twenty distance runners seems assured for the national A.A.U. ten-mile championship, which will be held at City College Stadium next Sunday.
NORFOLK, Va., June 7. -- Smashing into a pine tree, skimming and skipping across Hampton Roads for three miles, and finally running into the battleship Alabama, the big airship of Aeronaut Goudet to-day was completely wrecked. His face bruised, wrist broken, and body bruised, the air pilot was rescued from drowning in the nick of time by the sailors of the Alabama.
BOSTON, April 25. -- The Athletics won the final game of the series with Boston to-day by hard hitting at opportune times. Both teams wielded the stick with effect, driving Dineen and Bender from the box, but Waddell stemmed the tide for Philadelphia, while Winter was as easy for the visitors as Dineen. A running catch by Seybold was the fielding feature. Score:
Despite our best efforts, the Fairbanks cocktail scandal grows, and threatens to damage the political aspirations of the Indiana statesman. It is surprising to note, in the words of the poet, "how far a little cocktail throws its fumes." In a good world, to be sure, a supposedly naughty deed must cause gloom.
Erotic English "literature" is here further enriched by some account of the experiences and opinions of a creature, presumably of the masculine gender, who dresses himself in "the Soft lemon light" and admires himself in a mirror as he stands amid silver toilet articles and ivorywhite bowls filled with masses of gloire de Dijon roses.
To the Editor of The New-York Times: There can be no question that a considerable section of the opposition to the granting of the franchise to women rests neither on prejudice, selfishness, ignorance, fear of competition, pride of power, nor conceit, but on fear of the results to the people; in other words, upon distrust of popular self-government -- distrust of government of the people, by the people, for the people.
Gov. Ross appointed two ladies to the office of notary public, their commissions have been issued, and it is presumed they have been duly sworn and qualified. Some doubts as to the eligibility of females to hold the office of notary puplic have been expressed. If there is any serious question it ought to be...
An appeal to prevent the probable deportation of about 1,000 Greek and Armenian refugees, who have arrived here within the last few days was sent to Secretary of Labor James J. Davis yesterday by the National Council of the Episcopal Church. The council asks that steps be taken to have the who face deportation admitted on bond.
Editorial takes issue with T Stanton criticism of men's clubs which fail to provide a room for members to receive female guests
THREE penniless days make a Bum-of the masculine gender. Seven penniless days make a Lady Bum. These two cruel but truthful time  limits have been written upon with illuminating frankness in articles...
PRINCETON, N.J., April 26. -- Christopher Marlowe's "Dr. Faustus" was presented in Alexander Hall to-night by the English Department of Princeton University. All the parts were taken by undergraduates. This is the first time that "Dr. Faustus" has ever been put on the stage in America, although it was presented several times with great success in England about ten years ago.
We view with wholesome awe the quick and formidable advance of woman suffrage. If the parade turns out to be as impressive as it now threatens to be, the anti-suffragists, male and female, will tremble in their boots and suede pumps. But the arguments employed by the more vociferous advocates of the cause are still deplorable.
WILLIAMSTOWN, Mass., Nov. 10. -- A determined Williams football team took advantage of the breaks and routed Wesleyan, one of its traditional Little Three rivals, on Weston Field today, 33 to 6.
LONDON, July 12. -- The Chancery Division decided this week that women could not practice law. Action had been brought by Miss Gwyneth Marjorie Bebb, who sued the Incorporated Law Society for a declaration that she is a person within the meaning of the Solicitors acts and therefore entitled to be admitted to the preliminary examination for solicitors.
SOUTHAMPTON, L.I., July 1-- Mrs. William C.T. Gaynor has enlisted the aid of several younger members of the Summer colony who will sell programs at the thirteenth annual dog show under the ...
Two hundred Columbia College freshmen and their guests celebrated the Formal Fiesta of the class of 1940 in John Jay Hall last night. The chairman of the dance was Charles H. Schneer, who was assisted by eight of his classmates in the preparations.
M Yamamoto, laborer, plans to kill G Kemper, Amer Consul at Yokohama; is seized by police
PRINCETON, N.J., April 27.--Princeton defeated the combined Oxford-Cambridge lacrosse team here this afternoon by the score of 6 to 4. The game was keenly contested throughout, with the Tigers always a bit more aggressive...
Itals said to have advanced to Dabat, 25 mis from Gondar; comment on pol significance of advance on Lake Tana region; believed Itals in Ogaden Province were driven back along Fafan from Warandab by Tarik Bey; Enda Mehoni bombed by Itals with gases; 3 leaders of Gojjam revolt taken to Addis Ababa; details of bombing of Harar; Itals rept civil population of Harar was warned of air raid
CITY OF MEXICO, Feb. 2, via HAVANA, Feb. 7. The women of Guanajuato, in their  protest against the new law abolishing convents, say: "We promise not to recognize as father, brother, or husband, anybody who directly or indirectly took part in the action of Congress expelling the Sisters of Charity."
SOUTHAMPTON, L. I., Aug. 16Mrs. Walter R. Tuckerman gave a luncheon today at Dormie, her home in the Shinnecock Hills, for Mrs. Rushmore Patterson of New York and Washington, who is passing the season in Water Mill.
I WAS surprised to see in the Literary Supplement of Sunday, Sept. 1, a letter of Lord Byron of which I have the original, which has never been lent to any one, to my knowledge. How did Mr. Chrystie Benet secure a copy?
Out of the Maine Central train from the East Thursday, through the snow on the platforms and into the ladies' waiting room at the upper station, filed a goodly family, lacking its head, and when the door had closed the stout ...
The War Department released the following orders today, dated June 17: COLONELS Tuttle, A. D., Med. Corps, 2 months leave, July 10. Burt, R. J., Inf., 4 months and 13 days leave, June 18.
SURELY there will be a somewhat unusual representation of this gaudy and bewildering metropolis in Mr. Goetz's forth  coming musical comedy, and just as surely do the principals finally assembled for that increasingly impor-...
PALM BEACH, Fla., Jan. 27-- Tennis has increased in popularity during the last few years until it is now an integral part of this resort's sports program. All large clubs and many private homes have courts that are in use daily.
As a rule the sharpers who find their victims in the hotels are shrewd, and it takes an old manager or clerk to block them. Their ingenuity in devising schemes for defrauding the Bonifaces would do credit to a bank burglar.
As regards the site of Calvary it has now been very generally agreed by those who feel that the traditional site stands in too central a position to answer to the New Testament requirements that the most probable situation is the knoll outside the Damascus Gate, which the Jews point out as the ancient place of execution.
SOME one once made the meaty remark, "Never give a gift unless it grieves you to part with it," which, after all, is a pretty sensible way of looking at this Christmas business.
WASHINGTON, Sept. 12. -- Today's dispatches to the State Department reported the safety of the following Americans in Europe about whom inquiry has been made:
Yes, Miss, when a ship is broached, her clew-garnets are et thereon close to the jewel-blocks.
TRENTON, N.J., April 2.--Sixteen members of a Trenton Spiritualist Church went last night to the "mystery  house" of 419 Ferry Street and held a seance in the presence of Mrs. John Koch, widow of the suicide whose ghost is supposed to be haunting the building.
Crows are thought  wise : geese are not. A well known passage in the "Anabasis" tells us that on a certain occasion all the soldiers escaped unhurt, "but one man on the left wing was said to be shot."
SOUTHAMPTON, L.I., July 3-- Mr. and Mrs. C. Tiffany Richardson gave a dinner and bridge to  night at The Crossways for Mr. and Mrs. William Robertson Coe of Planting Fields, Oyster Bay, who have joined them for the holiday and week-end.
Chinese dollar touches new low in terms of U S dollar, Shanghai and N Y C; partial recovery laid to Brit-Chinese stabilization fund
PALM BEACH, Fla., Jan. 12.-- Miss Susan B. Stewart entertained with cocktails today at the Fiftysecond Street Club.
Some future historian of international language will turn through the bound volumes of THE NEW YORK TIMES SATURDAY REVIEW OF BOOKS. He will come across the correspondence between Dr. Charles L. Dana and Dr. Arcadius Avellanus, favoring the use of Latin as a world speech.
RRs encourage study of rail lore by running "fan trains" and supervising visits to terminals and shops; illus
Mobilization ordered in frontier provinces but not in central Ethiopia; govt's answer to League rept completed; parade of imperial guard in preparation for Maskal ceremony; mil preparations continue; diplomatic corps not to be invited to attend Maskal ceremony to avoid unfortunate incidents in presence of Ital Min; warriors of northern provinces advance toward Eritrean front; Emperor revs troops in Addis Ababa; modern equipment displayed
To the Editor of the New-York Times: During this warm weather too great a regard for the cleanliness of our streets cannot be emplayed. All the ??th, foul and extraneous matte? should be speedily removed, and all our streets kept thoroughly cleaned.
There are all reasons for wishing to be younger, and perhaps the smallest of them is that nowadays the classics are treated as human and living and contemporary, not as dead men's bones.
AMUSING METANORPHOSIS.--The St. Johnsbury (Vt.) Caledonian relates an amusing incident which recently occurred at the Island Pond passenger depot Among the passengers from Montreal was an ancient specimen of the genus homo, of gigantic proportions, apparently of the feminine gender, who might have been taken for WALTER SCOTT'S "Meg Merriles," or one of the witches in "Macbeth."
BALTIMORE, Md., May 2. -- News of the elopement of the Rev. Mr. Cooke was received with astonishment in Baltimore. He served as assistant rector of Grace Episcopal Church for five years. He was very popular here.
Sales of twenty-five chain-store systems in June totaled $122,291,578, against $100,192,504 in June, 1928, as increase of $22,099,074, or 22 per cent, according to a compilation by George H. Burr  Co. This total is a new high June record.
DETROIT, Mich., July 13. -- By scores of 7 to 1 and 5 to 4, Detroit look both games of to-day's double-header from Philadelphia. Dauss was in fine form in the first, allowing but five bits. A pass to Collins in the eighth, followed by singles by Baker and McInnis, scored the league leaders' only run. Detroit did not hit Houck with any frequency until the eighth, but made the most of its drives.
NOT a friend in the world," is an epitaph that sums up completer failure in life than "Not worth a penny." Financial crash may sweep away accumulated wealth. Or the faring may have been so scanty there was never a chance to put by. But to pass through the throng of fellow-creatures without retaining the affection of one! -- what morbid aloofness from the daily food of kindliness does it not argue.
According to word from Washington where Joe Cook currently is appearing in a vaudeville unit show, the comedian will go into rehearsal within thirty days in "Buggy Ride," a musical show which he is writing in collaboration with Don Herold.
SOUTHAMPTON, L.I., Aug. 12-- A large subscription has been reported for the "Evening of Song" to be given by Mme. Frieda Hempel, formerly of the Metropolitan Opera, next Sunday night at Four Fountains, the studio of Mr. and Mrs. Lucien Hamilton Tyng, in aid of the Southampton Fresh Air Home for Crippled Children.
A cable dispatch published yesterday quotes a statement by Prof. Orth of Berlin concerning the alleged overindulgence of poor patients in the wards of Mount Sinai Hospital. It is not easy to believe that so enlightened a man as Virchow's successor in the Chair of Pathology at the Berlin University really sees any social danger in the provision of decent comforts for the sick poor.
DUBLIN, June 19.--Mr. William O'Brien arrived here this evening and was received with the greatest demonstration witnessed here in many years. He was met at the railway station by the Lord Mayor and Corporation ...
" THIS is a man. This is his hand. This is the man's hand." Gertrude Stein? Not likely. It is rather one of the early lines in a nine-disk educational album of Basic English presented by Anglophone. We offer it for your attention this morning as one of the most efficient methods yet of learning the language.
HAVE you ever stopped to wonder just precisely what some people mean when they label a film a "woman's picture" and let it go at that? We have, because "women's pictures" are so frequently being hailed that we marvel at masculine persistence in moviegoing -- if they mean what we guess.
WHILE the new year comes in today, the celestial programme, possibly owing to the Christmas holidays not being over, does not contain a number on a date earlier than the 5th of the month. The outlook for 1905 is reassuring, and promises much that will attract and interest.
Ed on arrest and dismissal of Chinese in N Y C apartment for using "loud and boisterous language,"
NEWPORT, R.I., Sept. 2.--A festive holiday week-end, replete with a round of parties and special sports eevnts, is now under way here.
WASHINGTON, Nov. 30. -- Thirty minutes sufficed to complete the work of the Democratic caucus which was held to-day at 3 o'clock to nominate officers for the offices of Clerk, Doorkeeper, Sergeant at Arms, Postmaster, and Chaplain of the Fifty-fourth Congress. The roll call disclosed the presence of seventy-five members, an unusually large number when the perfunctory character of the proceedings is remembered.
SOUTHAMPTON, L.I., July 24-- Several dinner parties were given before the opening of "Deny the Heart," a new comedy by John Simon Rodell, presented tonight at Parrish Memorial Hall by the Fortnightly Players. The group, under ...
WASHINGTON, Aug. 28.--In the past month 15,821 men were recruited for the regular army, or more than threefourths of a full peace strength fighting division. Today the strength of the regular army is 202,537, of whom 15,045 are officers.
That any employ  ment for women should rank below that of domestic servant in popular estimation, is an idea which strikes the American mind as quite a novelty. An American girl will do almost anything rather than be a servant. A factory girl ranks in the United States as a far more ...
The following were the best ers for the week ended Satulway: NEW YORK Reported by the Ameeican News Company, Bloomingdale's, Brentano's, Doubleday, Doran Bookshops, Gimbel's, Macy's, Scribner's, Wanmaker's and Womrath's:
The robbers who blackjacked Mrs. Catherine Irene Sweeney in an unsuccessful effort to get the $20,000 worth of gems she wore after they had robbed her of $500 and some cheaper articles of jewelry, in her home at 1816 Avenue N. Brooklyn, at 2 o'clock on Sunday morning, ...
PHILADELPHIA, June 24. -- Chief Bender had the better of Russell Ford in a high-class flinging duel at Shibe Park this afternoon, but the noted Chippewa has little Stuffy McInnes to thank for the latest addition to his victory column. Stuffy was a most important factor in the first run scored by the World's Champions, besides scoring the deciding run with a home-run clout in the sixth inning.
LONDON, June 24.--A Scutari correspondent says: "The Turkish regulars here are being nominally disbanded, but, in fact, they are sent off in squads, disguised as Albanian Bashi-Bazouks, to organize opposition to the Greek occupation in Epirus. Their destination is Prevesa.
In the "Life and Letters of Lady Dorothy Neville," just published, that fine old scholar and thinker, Mr. FREDERIC HARRISON, says, presumably in a humorous explosion of resentment against shallow and ineffective forms and results of education, that he is opposed to all education.
Ital retreat In Libya verges on rout; Brit push on in Eritrea; RAF harries foe to Bengazi; Rome admits losses in Ethiopia; Germans raid Malta, lose 3 planes
US mil forces in N Africa show small knowledge; response to Army Special Service Dept courses tepid
Body arrives in London, lying in state at Chapel Royal at St James's Palace; ed in London Times
All the idlers in Jersey City of the masculine gender and a fraction of the population of Astoria got themselves early in the forenoon to the Police Court in the former place to listen to the concluding testimony in the examination of Capt.
The performances of Miss NILSSON in opera were the attraction at the Boston Theatre last week. The Strakosch Italian opera ...
I am much interested in what your reviewer has to say about myself (among others) in the article entitled "Feodor Dostoieffsky." In the Book Review for May 12, I am pretty sure that the replain himself. As he was in a posiviewer is wrong in setting 1881 as the date at which Howells and Hale began to "exploit the genius" of Russian writers, derived through French translations, to the American public.
When Commodore Ledyard's flag was hauled down from the topmast of the schooner yacht Corona in Newport Harbor Tuesday noon, and the cruise of the New York Yacht Club thereby declared at an end, there passed into the domain of reminiscence one of the most enjoyable and successful of the fifty-five of these annual events recorded in the archives of the club.
Edwin Bibby, a well-known wrestler of Providence, and a Frenchman who calls himself "Mamou," and is called the champion wrestler of his native country, ware announced to wrestle last night in Irving Hall at 8 o'clock.
The lists of apartment leases reported by brokers yesterday included the names of several persons of prominence in the musical world, as well as of a number of business executives.
So you think that the 1945 pennant races are the closest and the most furious in baseball history. They've been quite exciting, of  course, but the grandpappy of all pennant races was that 1908 production when the American League championship was settled on the final day of the campaign and the National League title was determined in the only post-season playoff ever held.
Having lately announced "Saturday Night" and "The Great Adventure of Woodrow Wilson" for production next season and "The Fifth Column" for this Spring, Lewis E. Gensler emerges this morning with another project for his immediate schedule.
League studies plan to place neutral air observers on Ethiopian borders; explains ceremony of mobilization drums in Ethiopia
Two sisters were killed yesterday afternoon at Lakehurst, near Lakewood, N.J., when their automobile coupe was struck by a light engine of the Central Railroad of New Jersey at the Ridgeway crossing, three and a half miles south of Lakewood.
NEW LONDON, Conn., Sept. 1. -- Two more pall bearers have been selected for Richard Mansfield's funeral to-morrow at noon. The eight are Col. Augustus C. Tyler, Roland B. Keasby, and Dr. William Appleton of New London; Paul Wilstach, Robert Appleton, Benjamin D. Stevens, and Rutger Jewell of New York, and Commander John Parker, U.S.N.
From a period in the latter part of 1917, when one railroad company alone was losing silk at the rate of $20,000 a day, the Lost Property Bureau of the
The Group Theatre unexpectedly revised its schedule yesterday, deciding to defer indefinitely its proposed production of Chekhov's "Three Sisters." Instead, it will open the season with a new play by Robert Ardrey entitled "Tower of Light."
Lewis Berkelheimer, convicted of assault for slashing the face of William Jones, a boxer, in Coney Island, in July last, was sentenced by Judge Dike in the County Court, Brooklyn, yesterday to serve from two years and two months to four years and four months in Sing Sing.
As I helped myself to a generous section of cold chicken at the supper table last night I just casually remarked to my wife: I seen a piece in the paper that hereafter women will wear dresses longer. And right off the bat says she: Well, if they're goin' to wear 'em any longer than we farmers' wives have to wear ours they'll have to be made of rawhide.
The Summer visitor to Gloucester, on the New-England coast, especially if the visitor be of the feminine gender, is pretty sure to be interested in the fact that there dwells the heroine of Mrs Phelps-Ward's pathetic story, " The Madonna of the Tubs," not far from the Summer home of the author.
Because "lawyers talk to waiters and poets to hostlers" on the steamers bound from Seattle to St. Michaels, in Alaska, a writer of big headlines in one of the newspapers assumes that "caste" is ignored by the adventurers going to the gold fields of the Klondike. Perhaps it is.
ATLANTIC CITY, Sept. 11.--The Presidential veto was exercised here today when Warren G. Harding disapproved elaborate plans that had been made for the entertainment of his party.
If ever any pitcher had the "Indian Sign" on the Yankee batsmen that man certainly was Ralph Bender of the Athletics. Yesterday at American League Park, Bender was indeed the "Big Chief." For nine snappy and exciting rounds he had Clark Griffith's proteges going through all ports of contortions and gyrations trying to solve his puzzling delivery, but to no avail.
" I believe the Bible," writes a young actress who has just closed a Summer season in stock, "especially that part of it which says the humble shall inherit the earth. I believe they do -- and frequently eat their inheritance. I know for I am one of them and I have been made to bite the dust very often.
Mayor Edson on Monday last sent a communication to the Police Commissioners inclosing a list of the places in the City where liquor is sold without a license, received by him from the Excise Commissioners.
THE sixtieth National Horse Show will open in all its splendor in the quiet elegance of Madison Square Garden today. But 'twas not always thus. The original presentation in 1883 was made in an abandoned car-barn which was to gain an enduring fame of sorts under the label of Gilmore's Gardens. That sumptuous (?) site endured for four years until the show was called off temporarily.
A numerous and enthusiastic audience assembled in Chickering Hall last evening to listen to readings from the writings of Mr. Samuel L. Clemens--who prefers to be known as "Mark Twain"--and Mr. George W. Cable. The gentlemen who read were the gentlemen who had written.
I am a woman -- a young woman -- I am even commonly known as a girl. Need I say more to merit the amused contempt of that Truly Great Man -- The Cynic? It is not without fear and trembling that I approach him, for I realize my position, and I doubt if my lungs will work in his rarefied atmosphere, and I feel as if I ought to take off my shoes.
The second-meeting of the Passaic Athletic Association will take place this afternoon, on the Clifton Track, at Clifton.
Italy mobilizes 4 more divisions; ban lifted on word "war" in Ital press; Ital diplomatic mail couriers temporarily held by Ethiopians and letters opened; Ital scores Eur press comment; Gt Britain protests Ital attacks
NIAGARA FALLS, June 24.--Dr. Talmage has been a bigger curiosity here to-day than the cataract, and from the time of the arrival of the first train in the morning until after the departure of the last at night the famous pulpit athlete has been followed about and stared at by ...
So much parcel and other mail is being sent to soldiers in France and sailors in European waters that Postmaster Thomas G. Patten said yesterday if persons on this side would make their parcels as compact as possible they would render a great service to the Government.
Nebraska City Speech Denouncing the Argo Starch Factory as a Trust; J. Sterling Morton's Reply in The Conservative
AUSTIN, Texas, Feb. 14.--The Legislature of Texas has now been sitting for about a month. Thus far it has completed but little of the work it was expected to accomplish. The task before it is a difficult one.
WEST HAMPTON BEACH, L.I., Aug. 25.--Bringing together a fleet of ninety-one yachts in its annual invitation open regatta, the yacht squadron of the West Hampton Country Club ended its racing program for the year with one of the best regattas ever sailed on Moriches Bay.
I NEVER knew a virtue or a vice that had a gender. The old passion for defining woman's sphere as being something entirely distinct from man's is rapidly becoming obsolete. In its place the recognition of the close kinship of the sexes is one of the remarkable developments of modern times.
Perhaps when you did your marketing last week-end you noticed the unusually large quantities of spinach piled up in greengrocers' stalls. If you did, let's hope you bought some and that you'll ...
Over a windswept course, Columbia's varsity eight defeated the Rutgers and Manhattan crews yesterday in one of the fastest races ever rowed on the Harlem River.
Col G B M Harvey quotes science and religious writers to prove women have souls and calls attention to fact that 10 Commandments apply to men exclusively, s, Women's Univ Club, NYC
A Malden (Mass.) correspondent of THE NEW YORK TIMES asserts that Frederick Burk's article has made no commotion in the Normal Schools of the State; and that "if it is (sic) true that the teachers in our Normal Schools believe that some general truths pertaining to the instruction of youth have been established by suitable evidence during the last 2,000 years, the people of Massachusetts will forgive them and continue to patronize the schools."
AN APPARITION STEAMSHIP.--The Commercial Advertiser announces that Commodoro VANDILT'S new steamship, the Ocean Queen, of 4,000 tons, will depart on her first voyage to Liverpool on the 21st of next month.
LONDON, July 8.--The latest returns from the Parliamentary elections show that 302 Conservatives and Unionists and 195 Gladstonians and Parnellites have been elected.
Why should the French word employe be so much used when we have at hand the English form of the same word, which seems at once to suggest itself and answers every purpose? Employee is surely the English correlative of employer. When we want the correlative of examiner we say at once examinee, and so in other analogous cases, e. g., licensee, assignee, addressee, consignee, mortagee.
C A Bookwalter says us probe, when Indianapolis Mayor, of '09 Von Sprecklesen explosions convinced him that J J McNamara was responsible and he told that to McNamara and other union leaders; denies S Gompers is silent partner in his printing business; Burns to check rept that Bookwalter was one who told Gompers of McNamara's guilt; Gompers again denies he knew McNamara was guilty, int, Washington
SOUTHAMPTON, L.I, Aug. 4.-- Robert L. Riggs Jr. of Chicago, Wimbledon champion, and Sidney B. Wood Jr. of Southampton, winner of the British crown in 1931, will come together for the second successive year in the final of the Southampton invitation tennis tournament tomorrow at 10:30 o'clock.
The students of the College of the City of New-York yesterday loitered in the rooms of the Professors with fear and trembling, it being the first day of the examination for advancement. Posted upon the library door was a list of books to be returned to-day, and the students were hurrying in and out at the Secretary's office with slips prepared ...
The national bank notes received for redemption to-day amounted to $254,000.  The receipts from internal revenue to-day were $353,793.14, and from Customs $518,459.14.
French authorities send native detachment to northern frontier on repts of Ital invasion of Ethiopia in Assab region
brings anti-trust suit against organized ball, statements about suit made by A. Herrmann, Gov. J. K. Tener and B. B. Johnson
This paper contained yesterday a recital of the latest news from Salt Lake City, in which it is stated that our informant passed Jedge ECKLES at the Nemaha, having in his charge Miss POLYDORE, who had been rescued from the Mormons on a writ of habras corpus at the request of the British Government. The United States steamer D. H. Morton arrived here yesterday with the parties referred to on board.
was not responsible for victory in N. Y. S., declares D. F. Malone, in speech at meeting of Woman's Party
The National Board of Trade meets in Milwaukee to-morrow.  The Pennsylvania Democratic State Convention is to be held in Harrisburg on Wednesday.
KANSAS CITY, Nov. 2--Hanford MacNider of Mason City, Iowa, was elected National Commander of the American Legion at its final session of its convention here today after resolutions had been adopted favoring the principles of the Washington armament conference, rapping President Harding ...
GOOD plays, and plenty of them, continue to be a cry  ing need of the New York theatre. (Other crying needs of the New York theatre, to mention only the "a" section, are audiences and actors--larger audiences ...
IN commenting upon a recent accident on an Italian railway, the statement was made in these columns to the effect that the transportation service of the Peninsula was the worst in the world. A patriotic Italian has sent a communication making a general denial.
Driving rain did not prevent a large attendance yesterday at Prof. Bickmore's lecture to the public school teachers on flies and mosquitoes in the American Museum of Natural History.
The recent defeat of Cambridge University by the Racing Club of France at track athletics is one of the first signs of the growing progress of French athletes, who until recently have given no visible proof of being able to menace Anglo-Saxon supremacy on track and field.
IN his new volume of essays, reviewed elsewhere in this issue, Mr. Henry Dwight Sedgwick repeatedly adverts to a topic around which the interest of every critic of literature must sometimes play.
Lt Col Taylor outlines plan to improve Natl Guard, article in Journal of Mil Service Inst
THREE unusual features render the December issue of Scribner's Magazine one of the distinctive publications of the month. The first is the  opening instalment of Edith Wharton's new novel. "A Son at the Front."
PHILADELPHIA, Aug. 10.--Despite the secrecy which anthracite operators and miners are maintaining regarding their conference here looking toward a settlement of the strike, it has become known that the miners are seriously discussing the advisablity of accepting the plan presented to them by the operators...
A correspondent of the Xenia (Ohio) Torchlight tells very amusingly his experience in a crowded car. He says: "The 9 o'clock train this morning, up from Xenia, was packed with people--but loosely packed, as is the royal American custom. A long string of a man coiled all over two seats, with a hard knot of head up in the window and a double bow-knot of boots over in the aisle;
PIPER'S POND, Penn., April 3.--The creek half a mile away beyond the stretch of hemlock forest was swollen to three times its natural size, and the roar of its angry torrent could be heard in the cabin above the tumult of the fierce wind that swept through the intervening woods.
THIS Margaret Mead is a dangerous person. She goes down to New Guinea, studies primitive tribes for two years and comes back with a book like a bomb that she drops into the complacent, fundamental conviction of the Occidental world, both scientific and social, that the sexes are innately different in their psychological attributes and that the male is dominant by right of brain and brawn.
"THE Dangerous Inheritance " is a colorful composite of  those elements involving to mance, youthful ambitions, grand opera, international intrigue and inevitable victory of love over obstacles, quite as we wish it in...
The Tyrolese cure freckles by washing them at night with water in which the moon shines. In the Harz Mountains and Silesia, the remedy for goitres is to turn one's face to the increasing moon three evenings running, then take a stone, silently touch the swelling with it, and throw it over the left shoulder.
Figure-heads are one of the few things about a ship that are designed solely for ornament, and they vary according to the taste of the builder. While some of these designs are excellent, there are others the mere sight of which will fill the beholder with mirth.
PROVIDENCE, June 21 -- The interest in this city in the relations between Senator Aldrich and the Sugar Trust has been on the icrease since Wednesday morning.
DOVER, N.H., Sept. 11 -- It does not seem to be fully settled in the minds of the expert politicians of the lower district of New-Hampshire whether the Hon. Henry W. Blair, just nominated for Congress by the Republican Party, is a strong candidate or a weak one, and really nobody can send out from this State to an anxious world a prognostication as to the matter that may be relied on.
A RACE HORSE, In Memoriam, beats the great Zev, the International Favorite and My Own thrown in for good measure. That news will perhaps interest 40 million Human Being's, and 2,000 Bookmakers, while the news of the unearthing of a Prehistoric Skull at Santa Barbara, California, linking us up with the Neanderthal Age will only be appreciated by a small Majority of us thinking People.
LOVE-MAKING on the stage is frequently a much more arduous task than it appears. At least one leading man found it so, according to his experiences, which he related as follows:
ENTERPRISING is too mild a word to describe the bustling, good-natured, redfaced little man who hurried breathlessly about London in mid-eighteenth century, intent on keeping "hot" his multifarious "irons."
A scene in all the glory of the Elizabethan period and costume; Dukes, regal in department; lords, ladies, and courtiers of perfect mien; a model clown, a noble wrestler, shepherds and foresters, fair youths and maidens -- this is "As You Like It" as it is to be put on the stage on Nov. 21 by the Professional Woman's League without a man in the cast.
Absolutely the only difference between the coal operators and President MITCHELL is the recognition of the United Mine Workers' organization. That was the sole point at issue when the President's conference ended, that alone stands in the way of an immediate resumption of mining.
The Pall Mall Gazette gives the following summary of news, which Herr VON MALTZAN, the well-known traveler, communicates to the All gemeine Zeitung, as derived from Mr. FRANZ HASSEN, a German emigrant from Hungary, son-inlaw to OUBIE, sometime King of Tigre: "The battle between KASSA and GOBAZYE, fought on the 11th of July, had been hot and fierce. KASSA had intrenched himself on a small hill near Adowa.
In promptly offering a detailed explanation of the advance in its rates made this week, the Western Union Telegraph Company has shown commendable appreciation of the public's newly asserted right to be well informed as to the operations and policies of corporations of its sort.
At the evening session of the Methodist State Convention held at Charlestown, Mass., on the 26th inst., a discussion arose on the question of admitting women to holy orders. Rev. W. LIVESEY was the first speaker. The Boston Journal, of the 27th inst., reperts him to have said that all the old foundations were being tested, and it might not be strange to find the Revolution substituted for the Bible.
The Mosel, of the North German Lloyd, and the City of Richmond, of the Inman Line, are the only European steam-ships which will leave this port to-day, as the sailing of the Circassia, of the Anchor Line has been postponed until Monday next on account of the 'longshoremen's strike. No vessel of the National Line has been advertised to sail this week.
Alter traversing a goodly section of the country , let me give you a summary of what I have seen and heard of the crops. You see I am judicious, for my attack is upon the stomachs of your readers, by telling of stomachic productions. Touch the stomach, and you have the head and heart secure enough.
Young burglars have been quite busy of late, but the police have been among thom. The other night some half dozen young rascals were detected in the act of breaking into Landers' oyster saloon, inBeckman-street. Three of them were captured, and
THE story of how Gutzon Borglum, the Danish sculptor, destroyed last week the figures of two angels he had conceived for the Cathedral of St. John the Divine, on Morningside Heights, has been told.
THERE always has been a consecrated bond between pen and pan. The classical example of Alexandre  Dumas and his "Dictionaire de la Cuisine" was preceded and followed by a thousand others, for the genius of writers in all ages ...
THE years have made John Hay Whitney a shade al  lergic to people bearing scripts and high tales, their object, backing. To get around it he has formed a sort of foundation, duly incorporated, which is to take care of any theatrical investing he may wish to make.
In a letter to the editor of the Nation, which will be published to-day, Mr. Abram S. Hewitt again refers at length to his connection with the controversy in regard to the Morey letter. Dismissing what he calls Judge Davis's "extra judicial attack" upon him in a few words, in which he intimates that such "attack" was actuated ...
For six months after the Kilgores moved up town the small boy of the family went to market. As a commissary he was all unqualified success. Under his management the table picked up umazingly. All the products of the butcher's and grocer's stalls were nice and fresh.
HAWAII'S bloodless revolution early in 1893, which resulted in the overthrow of the monarchy and the establishment of the provisional Government, left a royal family that was no longer royal, and blighted the hopes of a charming young woman, the heir-apparent to the throne, the Princess Kaiulani.
GOVERNORS ISLAND Ist Lt. Hule A. Smith, Inf.-Res., 229 East 42d St., New York, N. Y., is relieved from assignment to the 77th Division and is assigned to the 1st Division. 1st Lt. James E. Cavanagh, Med.-Res., 44 Peru St., Plattsburg, N. Y., unassigned, is assigned to the 1st Division.
The annual Cricket Match between eleven of the best players in the United States and eleven seelected from the Clubs of Canada, commenced on the Toronto ground yesterday. For the smith time have these players, or the majority of them, met in friendly strife alternately at New-York and Toronto. Three times have the Americans been successful, while the Canadians have defeated their opponents twice.
A BIT of news which, in the disappointments and uncertainties of Broadway, should be cause for rejoicing has just leaked out. This is that the new Oscar Straus operetta which Vienna ...
MILWAUKEE, Wis., Oct. 2. -- Fred Schwader of this city, driving a Petrel car, and his mechanician, Charles Paulson of Kenosha, were seriously injured while racing on the ten-mile, event of the Milwaukee Automobile Association Race meet at State Fair Park this afternoon.
THE latest disciples of the gospel of anti-fat are professional chauffeurs. "It's scant rations for me if I want to keep my job," said one driver. "Cloak models and ballet dancers are not more careful of their figures than us fellows will have to be if the owners of automobiles keep on getting squeamish about their tires.
MARTIN HUME in his historical work, "Two English Queens and Philip," (G.P. Putnam's Sons, publishers,) tells us how Philip of Spain strove to bring England into the fold of the Catholic Church, and also to control the policy of England to the detriment of France.
A Commencement at a College--say Yale, Union, Princeton, Columbia, or any other you prefer--where the Pierian spring is supposed to gush in illimitable volume for the use and benefit of the masculine gender exclusively, is a very good thing to talk about.
THE literary prophets who tell us, in novels or in pseudoscientific treatises, what the world will be like a hundred or a thousand years from now are discussed by J.B. Priestley in his essay, "A Mistake About the Future," in the June number of Harper's Magazine.
Franklin was the American master of aphoristic wisdom. His precepts and maxims have been sometimes objected to as on a low plane of selfish thrift, and savoring rather of political economy than of the golden rule. But Franklin was a true sage in the old Greek sense of the word, and after the manner of the seven wise men, who each of them is represented as having uttered some ...
IT was really a very serious matter, though of course the Mere Man had laughed and pooh-poohed the suggestion that it would be. Had he not rubbed elbows with Fashion night after night at the opera? And was his not a familiar figure at symphony concerts and afternoon recitals, projected for the purpose of launching long-haired foreign genius on the silvery -- not to say golden and greenback -- sea of American favor?
IF you would know why certain of the great names flare forth no longer in the bright symbols of Broadway, consider the case of Mr. Arliss. When that actor of treas  ured memory returned recently from Hollywood no small twitter was raised in the inner circles because...
HE who gets flapped is the protagonist of all flapperdom. It is about time for the men to stand right up with the ready-to-order  "Pecavimus."
IN the midst of this hot weather, two booking officials, Augustus Pitou for the Erlanger interests and Jules Murry for the Shu  berts, are busily apportioning the new season's attractions among the plentiful supply of Broadway houses.
YOU ought to have been converted. Goodness knows, you have attended enough seances." The words were spoken by the late Dr. Egbert Mueller, the arch-priest of occultism is Germany, who died a few weeks ago, and they were addressed to Dr. Albert Moll, his friend of twenty-one years' standing and the most ruthless exposer of mediumistic humbug.
Every now and then some venturesome woman attempts to secure admission to the courts of the State in which she lives for the purpose of practicing as a lawyer. In the District of Columbia and one or two of the States this privilege has been granted by statute, and has been exercised to a very limited extent, but in most of the States where application has been made it has been refused.
NIAGARA FALLS, Ont., June 24. -- At a conference of the A B C envoys and the American and Huerta delegates, held late tonight, the protocols of agreements, heretofore reached between the Americans and Mexicans, were formally signed.
JUST here and there in exclusive little shops, in smart restaurants, shaded by the hood of a handsome limousine, one sees suggestions of new styles. They are a relief because we have had so much of the sameness of Summer. We have grown tired, before it is really time that we should, of the things that have made the past fashion season a success.
Those who follow military rifle shooting are greatly interested in the eighth annual meeting of the New Jersey State Rifle Association and National Rifle Association, which begins at Sea Girt, N.J., to-morrow and continues until Saturday next. Although New York will not be represented by a rifle team this year, many of its crack shots will be present to compete in the individual matches.
A disposition seems to exist, to make more of the slight difficulty which has sprung up between some of tile newspapers of England and France, than the facts warrant. The financial crisis which France is rapidly approaching, is a subject of the profoundest alarm for thinking men on both sides of the Atlantic.
It is great to be the hero. It is certainly grand to be lauded from one end of the country to the other. It is fine to see your name in big type on all the sporting pages, from the small weekly to the greatest metropolitan daily.
Mayor HALL seems ambitious to earn, in addition to his proud title of King of the Bohemians, the distinction of being the Prince of the Pretenders.
About Mr. Lafcadio Hearn there is something of Bernardin Saint Pierre, with no little of the more modern Theophile Gautier and of the Pierre Loti of to-day. He has the love of the generalizer in nature as had Saint Pierre, the flow of language as of Gautier, and that power of assimilation which belongs to M. Loti.
THERE is something pathetic about the first appearance in a uniform edition of the works of a living author. We who have known his stray books as waifs hunting sanctuary and have felt a certain sense of virtue in taking them in, are somewhat aggrieved when they first front the world in solid phalanx.
Mr. Timothy Flynn, of the fragrant suburb of Shantytown, is a gentleman whose business it has been for several years to develop the railroad resources of the country with a pickaxe. His family until recently consisted of Mrs. Flynn, Timothy Flynn, Jr., Terence Flynn, ...
A WEEK ago fashion seemed to have taken entirely to furs. There weren't even any faces to be seen for the puffiness of the  furs that covered them.
One of the few English landlords who appear now to be doing anything of note for the improvement of their estates is the Duke of Portland. His Grace recently borrowed the sum of $250,000 for use on his land in Derbyshire. Lincoln, Nottingham, and Worcester, and has just secured an additional loan of $100,000 for expenditure in improving his estates in Northumberland.
MY DEAR BROTHER: When I called on my Uncle Sam the other night he seemed to be sick or upset about something, and I said:
ROM the farthest banks of the sta dium the dim faces strain toward the square white glare of the ring. The ordered rows seem to press in like a tide. And the night air is filled with a murmur, restless and confused, the overtone of many voices. A great crowd iswaiting for the bell.
-- A movement has been started in Philadelphia, nominally by the restaurant men, but acting, it is believed, at the instigation of the saloon keepers, to do away with free lunches in places where liquor is sold. The concert of action between the representatives of the two trades is obvious, as are the motives of each class.
In the last debate in the Assembly the political situation was cleared of a large amount of rubbish, and the Government indicated its policy more clearly than it has hitherto done. M. Ricard informed us that it was now a war between the Republic and the Prince Imperial, and my readers will remember that I have said the same thing for the past two years.
Messrs. Lucy STONE, ANTOINETTE L. BROWN, and Company, gave the public another touch of their quality, yesterday, at Metropolitan Hall. Backed by GARRISON, WENDELL PHILLIPs, and the Tribune, they enacted a very respectable imitation of Captain RYNDERS' exploits at the Tabernacle a day or two since. Not satisfied with their own Conventions,
WHEN San Francisco comes into the news as a storm centre that fact is partly a sign of the times and partly an evidence that the city's temperament has not changed. From the days of the Vigilantes, clash and struggle have again and again rocked the peninsula beside the Golden Gate.
Mr. Harris's "Uncle Remus, His Songs and His Sayings," published in 1880, gave us a foretaste of that pleasant subject of folk-lore on the plantation, and in the present volume, having found new stories, derived from the same sources, the author has presented a delightful work.
A friend said to us yesterday that a word of serious reproof was due to the Woman's Rights affair at Metropolitan Hall on Monday night.
CHICAGO, Aug. 12. -- Mrs. Mary Genders, a widow, twenty-one years old, lost $3,000 from her safety deposit box in the Illinois Trust and Savings Bank, and yesterday swore to a warrant charging Charles C. Hammitt with the theft. The money was paid her by a life insurance company after the death of her husband.
BEAUTY such as Corinne Griffith's is bound to help almost any production, but one can't help sighing at times when beholding some of the scenes in the picturization of Zoe Atkins's play "Declasse," in spite of the lovely eyes of the star. Robert Vignola has handled this story with a heavy hand, obviously with the idea of catering to the unsophisticated audiences.
EQUINUNK, Penn., Jan. 17.--Men who celebrate their eightieth birthdays by persistent and eager hunting of wild cats are undoubtedly so rare in this or any other country that when one such is found it is worth while to make a note of the fact and put it on record. Such a man is one of the products of the woods of ...
Intellectual or learned women have for ages been a theme for satirists, who always portray them as tiresome, pedantic, and uninteresting. They intimate, if they do not directly declare, that it is unwomanly to have a good mind and to use it liberally.
It is understood that Senator Gorman favors Governmental control of the telegraph system of the country, and it is rumored that during the next session of Congress he will put the question to a test, perhaps as a feeler only, ...
Having just witnessed the closing exercises of our Fourth Annual State Fair, upon the daily eoutine of whose arrangements I was for several days an attendant, I have ventured to offer you some account of the proceedings.
FOUR years ago word went out that "Hoosier Jim" -- James Whitcomb Riley -- the Indiana singer of songs and writer of jingles, had written his last rhyme, that he was paralyzed and near the grave. It cast a pall of gloom over the Hoosier State, over all America, yes, over the hole world, for Jim Riley, former barefoot boy from Greenfield, is the friend of Kings and Emperors.
WHEN Mark Twain wrote his celebrated essay "Concerning the Jews," race feeling was not more than normally exacerbated. Thanks to the geniality of his humor, he was able to present a portrait of the most discussed of peoples which was as intimately characterized -- as free in the use of both light and shadow -- as it was broadly human, tolerant and wise.
NO gift touches a woman so closely as the one that relates more or less intimately to her wearing apparel. General fixings tone up one's dressing remark  ably, especially if they are the right kind and in character with the wearer's wishes. Perhaps they are the hardest ...
THIS Is, indeed, a strange book. It seems to be a survival from the linguistic dark ages. It is the work of  a man vrho knows Latin and Greek, French and German and Russian, and who fails to suspect that this knowledge by itself is not sufficient ...
The second annual target excursion of Major F. Kareher's battalion, of Brooklyn, will be held at East New-York on Monday, Sept. 23. The members of the battalion will assemble at No. 47 Johnson-avenue at 7 o'clock A.M., and proceed direct to the rendezvous at East NewYork.
WASHINGTON, April 17. -- Mr. A. Thompson Rei of Santiago, Chile, a representative from that country to the World's Fair, said in an interview to-day that his country is going rapidly ahead.
WHEN he was a little boy, says Blasco Ibanez in his preface to "El Paraiso de las Mujeres," one gave him "Gulliver's  Travels"; and long after reading it he uses to wonder what was going on in the Kingdom of Lilliput. Then in the course of an adventurous life.
HERE are some miscellaneous notes on the production of "The Tempest" at The Century, notes which might be read as a tentative preface for the revival of a Shakespearean romance so infrequently played in the theatres of this country as to be virtually unknown to the American stage.
Text of protocol to Peace Treaty with Germany demanding that stolen treasure be restored before treaty can become effective
THE new reporter said he would like to interview an actress. He felt that he could get something interesting and -- the stage had always appealed to him. Whereupon the kindly and sympathetic editor, who is always ready to encourage and advise, sent him on the quest. She was a prominent actress who had appeared only a few nights before in an important play in which she scored an emphatic success.
UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT.--Criminal causes. SUPREME Court--Special Term.--Nos. 5, 6, 7, 13, 18, 20, 26 to 34. SUPREME COURT--Circuit.--Nos. 1707, 1874, 896, 1558, 1560, 1846, 2016, 1727, 1878, 1626, 1922, 1923, 1956 to 1958, 1974, 1982, 1987 1/2, 1988, 2012, 2035, 649, 1847, 400, 9, 10, 38, 36, 37.
THE following words occur almost at the beginning of Edna Kenton's paper on "The Militant Woman -- and Women" in the November Century: "The middle of the last century saw the stupendous upheaval, with the 'Origin of Species' and 'The Descent of Man' marking the epochal divide."
THE room was delightfully al fresco, paneled walls stained tarpon blue, mats of green rushes spread on the tiles, lounge chairs of gray wicker, in which gentlemen in impeccable sport clothes basked in sunlight sifting through window awnings in bright stripes, probably of gold and platinum.
ALTHOUGH atmospheric electricity is ever present, the advent of Summer weather greatly increases the static and causes interference with radio signals.  This greater accumulation of static forms lightning, a force which brings...
THIS well-printed volume of 350 pages* aims at presenting and defining the language of Shakespeare "so far as it has passed from our modern speech," excluding "all words and senses of words which are still in good literary use," and, "except where there is obscurity, all senses which are merely contextual and do not represent an authenticated usage."
LAST week the Bulgarian delegates appeared before the allied com  mander in the Balkans and signed an armistice. The terms, in general, were unconditional surrender. The specific terms were those laid down as vital in last week's article--they were the only terms the Allies could accept, the only terms they can accept from any of their enemies.
Part II. -- Sauces and Processes. FRENCH cooks excel in sauces, or as we call them, gravies. One of the most famous cooks declares:
SOME day a history of the movies will have to be written (and this may be its outline) in which there will be no mention of Thomas Edison, Samuel Goldwyn or Will H. Hays but just a running fire of chapters devoted to that changing bevy of transient beauties known to our generation as the Glamour Girls.
The report of the Secretary of the Treasury forms a volume of nearly 700 pages. It contains some curious and valuable statements not heretofore republished. Hon. PHILIP ALLEN, Senator from Rhode Island, furnishes the Secretary with some useful memoranda relative to manufacturers.
NEW HAVEN, Conn., Nov. 20.--Another of those fighting Yale elevens, weakened and disorganized by injuries but endowed with the instinct for stubborn resistance, traditional with the Blue, fought Harvard to a standstill in the big Yale Bowl this afternoon and kept the vaunted Crimson machine from crossing its goal line.
Health and Sickness are just now prominent objects of newspaper discussion. Whenever an epidemic--or a panic, its counterpart presentmentcomes, all minor diseases put on the prevailing or expected type. But when a feeling of security returns-as it now has in this City--our bodily ailments are ruled by their old laws-of which, not the least arbitrary is fashion. Yes, we believe it;
James C. Rice Post, No. 29, will have a concert and reception in the Lexington-Avenue Operahouse next Tuesday evening.
IT is perhaps a significant note in the many discussions relating to the theatre hat that at a class of parliamentary practice the other day, no one could be found who would or could take the negative side of the motion that women should lay aside their hats at theatres and other places of public amusement where the audience was seated.
The English have invaded France. Contrary to all (historical) expectation, the French have taken it very kindly. and were preparing, when the last account left, in getting up bails and soirees and reviews, in honor of the invaders. The landing of
The balance in the City Treasury is $1.513,131.54.  THE TIMES has received $10 from G.G., for the yellow fever suffers at Fernandina Fla.
To the Editor of the New-York Times: A very interesting letter from Commander WALEER appeared in your popular journal a few days since, upon the "Conversion of sailing vessels into war steamers." The great importance of this subject, and the deep interest now being manifested by all and the deep interest now being manifested by all conversant with such matters, will be deemed a sufficient apology for encroaching upon your columns.
To the Editor of the New-York Daily Times: I am in the country rusticating. To-day I have just got your paper of yesterday. In it I find a Saratoga reverie of Minnie Myrtle. I have no doubt sentimental juveniles will much relish this Miss Minnie's compositions. They evince care. They abound in sweetness. Unmarked by any great profundity of thought, their style is nevertheless easy and graceful.
I ACCOMPANIED my friend Silas Larrabee to-day on his quarterly inspection tour of the Ogunquit Zoological Garden, of which he is one of the Trustees. Stopping in front of a bear cage Mr. Larrabee remarked: "That's the Widder Marcot bear."
A report that the authorities had found a new witness, a New Brunswick man, who had told them he had seen Mrs. Frances Noel Stevens Hall leave her home at 8 o'clock the night of the murder and "run hurriedly" to the house of her cousin, Henry de la B. Carpender, caused a sensation in New Brunswick ...
IN irritable but anonymous "playgoer" complains, in one of those letters a newspaper writer on theatrical topics is always receiving from folks who want to correct his errors and teach him something, that no American actress when she plays an old woman's part is ever willing to "make-up" to look old and ugly.
SINCE Lewis Waller made his announcement that he intended to be an American producer of plays -- for the time being, at least -- he has been busy getting his plans in order and experiencing the difficulties and the comparative pleasures that follow the ways of the producer in this country.
There are some moderately interesting sequences in the picturization of Edna Ferber's story, "Gigolo," but this vehicle has not been handled with a full appreciation of its dramatic possibilities. The dearth of suspense in many of the chapters results in the situations being flashed on and off the screen in a rather lukewarm fashion. While the acting of Rod La, Rocque, Louise Dresser and Cyril Chadwick is praiseworthy, it is quite obvious that their performances would have benefited considerably by more imaginative direction.The first introduction of the "Gigolo," an insufferable Paris specimen who dances for money, is a little abrupt. One understands all about him, but he wanders away for several chapters, and then reappears as a pivotal point of the photoplay.In many instances this film is not outstandingly convincing. Money plays an important part in this subject, but it seems to come and go according to the director's whim. First one perceives Julia Gory, a widow who marries Dr. Gerald Blagden, returning to Pleasanton, Wis., after a stay abroad. She is by no means enthusiastic regarding life in Pleasanton, and to please her second husband she sells out her interest in a steel foundry. Her son, Gideon, is quite happy in the little town, largely because he has fallen in love with Mary Hubbel. To please his mother he accompanies her abroad, and then comes the war. Gideon loses no time in enlisting in the French Air Force, while Dr. Blagden curses the war and appears to be slowly poisoning Julia.Julia spends all her money and has to live in a most humble street, for which the title writer has invented a new sort of French in which he scorns to recognize the genders. Gideon is injured and the right side of his face is treated by skillful surgeons. He looks quite strange and has to wear a monocle to stop his face from twitching.Subsequently Gideon returns to Paris where, after his mother dies, he is forced to earn his living. For a time he joins the ranks of the gigolos, or the breed with loose ankles, in order to get wine and good food.There is at least in this film one piece of comedy that created a sturdy outburst of laughter yesterday in the Hippodrome. It is where Mr. Hubbel takes his daughter to a Parisian restaurant and not being familiar with the French language he orders "three gigolos."There are some moderately interesting sequences in the picturization of Edna Ferber's story, "Gigolo," but this vehicle has not been handled with a full appreciation of its dramatic possibilities. The dearth of suspense in many of the chapters results in the situations being flashed on and off the screen in a rather lukewarm fashion. While the acting of Rod La, Rocque, Louise Dresser and Cyril Chadwick is praiseworthy, it is quite obvious that their performances would have benefited considerably by more imaginative direction.The first introduction of the "Gigolo," an insufferable Paris specimen who dances for money, is a little abrupt. One understands all about him, but he wanders away for several chapters, and then reappears as a pivotal point of the photoplay.In many instances this film is not outstandingly convincing. Money plays an important part in this subject, but it seems to come and go according to the director's whim. First one perceives Julia Gory, a widow who marries Dr. Gerald Blagden, returning to Pleasanton, Wis., after a stay abroad. She is by no means enthusiastic regarding life in Pleasanton, and to please her second husband she sells out her interest in a steel foundry. Her son, Gideon, is quite happy in the little town, largely because he has fallen in love with Mary Hubbel. To please his mother he accompanies her abroad, and then comes the war. Gideon loses no time in enlisting in the French Air Force, while Dr. Blagden curses the war and appears to be slowly poisoning Julia.Julia spends all her money and has to live in a most humble street, for which the title writer has invented a new sort of French in which he scorns to recognize the genders. Gideon is injured and the right side of his face is treated by skillful surgeons. He looks quite strange and has to wear a monocle to stop his face from twitching.Subsequently Gideon returns to Paris where, after his mother dies, he is forced to earn his living. For a time he joins the ranks of the gigolos, or the breed with loose ankles, in order to get wine and good food.There is at least in this film one piece of comedy that created a sturdy outburst of laughter yesterday in the Hippodrome. It is where Mr. Hubbel takes his daughter to a Parisian restaurant and not being familiar with the French language he orders "three gigolos."
indicted by Federal Grand Jury for treason on charge of tampering with gyroscope mechanism, so as to deflect torpedoes while employed as foreman in gyroscope dept. of the E. W. Bliss Torpedo Co.
WALLACK'S THEATRE.--A new piece in this warm weather is a gift which we should receive from the gods with all humility and gratitude. And in good truth the new piece produced at Wallack's Theatre last evening would very well justify some thanks. "Lalla Rookh " is a decided success, despite the little inconvenances which marred the general effect at the first representation last evening, and which we hope to see amended.
THIS is the story of a wild goose chase for a grieving widow, the incidents that happened, and opinions gathered in the pursuit.
WITH four America's Cup defense yachts--Enterprise,  Yankee, Whirlwind and Weetamoe-under sail in unofficial tests and races, and an other challenger preparing to cross the Atlantic to meet one of them, the biggest problem in the coming
How much the cause of Temperance has been advanced by the recent Convention of Men, Women and Bloomers, whose garrulity has so largely exhausted our space and the public patience for the past few days, we shall not presume to calculate. We think it unfortunate, however, for the respectability of any cause that it should fall into such hands, and be urged by such proceedings as those of the past week.
Although sea life lacks many of the social advantages which are to be had on shore, the sailor is as fond of the society of his own species as is the average landsman. The dearth of social advantages on shipboard forces Jack to devise ingenious substitutes for the lyceum, the playhouse, the assembly room, and other similar institutions.
The information on which the prosecuting authorities depend for the indictment of a woman and two men in the Hall-Mills murder case will be laid before Supreme Court Justice Charles W. Parker and Foreman Alfred B. Gibb of the Somerset County Grand Jury in Somerville today. Deputy Attorney General Wilbur A. Mott and Detective ...
KING NEBUCHADNEZZAR wrote letters, and three of them have turned up in the Yale Babylonian Collection, with several  written by King Nabonidus and other lesser rights of Biblical and preBiblical history.
About two weeks ago, as a gentleman farmer, living in Madison County, was riding towards his home, not for distant, he observed a man and a woman by the road side, engaged in repairing ??ware. few days afterwards,
-- A verse -- writer in The Nation calls the Sword the "high bride of Justice." We had until now supposed Justice to be properly represented by the femenine gender -- whatever the Sword might be; but we live and learn.-- A verse -- writer in The Nation calls the Sword the "high bride of Justice." We had until now supposed Justice to be properly represented by the femenine gender -- whatever the Sword might be; but we live and learn.
Jewel thieves aboard the Orient Express. Enough with the railroading, even then.Ever since the days of "The Great Train Robbery," released in 1903, Hollywood has shown a fondnessone is tempted almost to say a suspicious fondness  for the melodrama that can be mounted on railroad tracks. A shot of clicking wheels, or of a train passing through a tunnel, conveys a sense of action, even when the story does not. That, however, is not entirely true of "I Am a Thief," the current item at the Mayfair, which is of the genre of "Silk Express," "Orient Express," "Shanghai Express" and a few other express stories. There is more than a suspicion that its present name was selected only after the discovery that the stock of "express" titles had run out.If it does little else, the Mayfair film confirms an idea that this corner stumbled upon many moons ago. The notion is that the moviemakers are convinced that the trains of Central Europe carry a few bona fide passengers but derive their chief revenue from the transport of international jewel thieves, their potential victims and secret police agents; that sinister men and women are always prowling through compartments and leering into the camera without any one ever noticing, and that the conductors never bother about tickets, but just poke about in the corridors, looking for murdered passengers.It is on just such a train that most of the action of "I Am a Thief" occurs. Here is suave Ricardo Cortez, with the famous Karenina diamonds, and Mary Astor, who seems to be after them, and Irving Pichel as one of the sinister lurkers-around, and Robert Barrat as another. Nor will the knowing spectator be duped by the apparent innocence of the obviously bogus Colonel Jackson (Dudley Digges), or the dithering antics of the timid lawyer as played by Ferdinand Gottschalk.As the train races from Paris to Istanbul to the tune of "button, button, who's got the button?"the button being the "jools"suspicion wheels from one to another, so that it's pretty hard, at times, to figure whether Mr. Cortez is as our neighbor put it, the good guy or the villain; and that goes for Miss Astor, with the appropriate change in gender. At the finish everything is explained to every one's satisfaction; but this cornerwith all appreciation of the mystifying melodramatics of the filmventures a timid plea to the film producers, ventures it as a possible New Year's resolution to Hollywood: Please, Sirs, won't you give up making any more "Shanghai-Orient-Silk-I-Am-A-Thief Expresses" in 1935? We're tired of railroading.
Mr. Arthur Gilman is to lecture in Chickering Hall this evening on "The Wit and Humor of New-England."
ONE of the latest arriving ships of the American Line brought me a chaperon.
Welcomed in N Y C; presented with gold medal of N Y C by Mayor Walker; presented with medal of U S Flag Assn; honored at luncheon at opening of Advertising Fed convention and at dinner by Aeronautical Chamber of Commerce; pors; illus; plans for Wash reception
G.P. Putnam's Sons will publish Monday "A History of the Parish of Trinity Church in New York," compiled in large part from original documents, by the order of the Corporation of Trinity Church, and edited by Dr. Morgan Dix S.T.D., D.C. L., (ninth rector.) The work will be complete in three volumes, with portraits and views.
Skull Island again, with a surprising Junior. Good sequel. Best moment last: upraised paw.The Prince of the celebrated house of Kong is a vaudeville buffoon alongside of his old man, who played hob-nob with a squadron of pursuit planes on top of the Empire State Building last year. The explorers begin by rescuing the Prince from a quicksand bog. Thereafter this fellow, who is not an inch over thirty feet, follows the treasure hunters around the mysterious island, defeating crossword puzzle fauna by the methods once employed by Charlie Chaplin to evade pompous policemen and irate merchants. The big earthquake climax of "Son of Kong" is straight out of the "Partners in Peril" library. Engulfed by the rushing waters, Prince Kong gallantly holds Robert Armstrong above the flood until the boat with the other explorers comes along, and then collapses sacrificially into the sea.This sequel to last season's hair-raiser is a low melodrama with a number of laughs that are loud and satisfying, although the comical intent of the producers is open to argument. Kong's battles with two ruffians of questionable race and gender is full of the head-punching gusto of a wrestling match in the Garden. Young Kong is, perhaps, a more effective pantomimist than his late lamented sire. When a giant cave bear taps him gravely on the head he crosses his eyes lugubriously in the highly comical style of Ben Turpin.For all that, "Son of Kong" is not the masterpiece of mechanical ingenuity that "King Kong" was, To its leading player the film devotes a regrettably small portion of its story. The introduction is a long and windy account of Carl Denham's preparations for the trip and it goes to unnecessarily trying lengths to plant the villain and the girl. Helen Mack, the heroine, is spared the romantic terrors endured by Fay Wray in her meetings with the neurotic parent.Crowds reminiscent of the halcyon days besieged the Roxy for a look at "Son of Kong" yesterday Compounded chiefly of youngsters, they enjoyed themselves, if their pleasure was proportionate to the noise they made.On the Roxy Stage."Buck and Bubbles," a pair of comedians whose blackface doesn't wash off and whose patter is genuinely funny, are the best liked of the Roxy's new-stage features. Other mentionable members are Al Gordon's trained dogs, George Prentice's "Punch and Judy" show, the "Twelve Aristocrats," who dance smartly, and a Gae Foster ensemble dance, with the girls effectively costumed in long satin gowns and drooping hats. Paul Remos, whose midget act appears to be one of the few really changeless things on the variety stage, and Dave Schooler, who is fare-welling this week, complete the bill.
ONCE more the cry has been raised that the schoolmaster is invading politics. At present and at home his welcome is a distinctly derisive one. The academic point of view and the academic mind are not popular with the masses. Col Watterson's characterization of Gov. Woodrow Wilson as "a schoolmaster and not a statesman" was confessedly not meant to be flattering.
Frontier frills for maturing Deanna, and some nice Kern songs. Best: ``Any Moment Now.''Those Yuletide herald angels hit some vocal competition yesterday in the neighborhood of Loew's Criterion, where the caroling concession was in the hands of melodious Deanna Durbin in "Can't Help Singing," a Universal film. And, by all the holiday evidence, Miss Durbin's generosity with songs was none the less seasonal and triumphant than that of the seraphic choir. For songs in abundance and par excellence are the best things in this gaudy color film, and Miss Durbin sings them in a fashion which makes it thoroughly pleasing that she can't desist.As for the show itself, it happens to be an airy outdoor musical which might, just by chance, bear faint resemblance to "Oklahoma!" a modest Broadway hit. That is to say, the story is about a pre-Civil War debutante who goes west to California in pursuit of that westbound young man, only en route she meets up with another whom she likes much better and, thereafter, pursues. And what with the costumes and choruses and bumpkin comics wandering hither and yon, it does recollectat least, in purposethe bucolic charm of the forenamed hitIt must be remarked, however, that the book lacks the latter's subtle grace and, except for a few comic moments, is pretty much run of the operetta mine. Those moments come by virtue of the burlesque performances of Akim Tamiroff and Leonid Kinskey as a couple of Slavic fortune-hunters camp-following an overland wagon train. Bewildered by the "customs of the country," the boys are really pretty good.But the costumes and scenery are dazzling  in opulent color don't forgetand the songs, as we say, are fair reason for taking time off to see the show. Jerome Kern is the author of them, and they range from the lyrical title song to a rousing choral number called "Californ-i-ay." This latter (not dissimilar to "Okla-lahoma," one might observe) has a dandy lyric by E. Y. Harburg, which the Chamber of Commerce might endorse. "The hills have more splendor; the girls have more gender"that's just one couplet we recall.And Miss Durbin is peaches-and-creamy as the little lady who does the cross-country jaunt and pauses (or keeps strolling) at suitable intervals, to warble her repertory of songs. Robert Paige, an outworn juvenile, is the incomprehensible gentleman of her choice and Ray Collins, Andrew Tombes and Olin Howlin are amusing in small comedy roles. You may count on "Can't Help Singing" as an hour and a half of diversion.
AFTER the fiercest battle fought in many a year on the floor of the House of Representatives at Washington, that body passed, by a vote of 153 to 31, the resolution adopting as the form of the famous $2,000,000 Lincoln Memorial the Greek Temple design of Henry Bacon, to be erected at the western end of the Mall and immediately on a line with the Capitol Building and the Washington Monument.
EVERY month since Nov. 11, 1918, when the armistice was signed, after the enemy's abject surrender, large bodies of  men have been released from military service, and have left the zone of the armies to be reabsorbed into civil life.
Early schoolmarm saga, still one of the best.These are bitter times, when looking backward is much more pleasant for a lot of people than looking ahead. And that is why a goodly number will probably find much comfort and delight in Richard Rowland's sentimental survey of a simple and homely life well-spenta little picture called "Cheers for Miss Bishop," which opened yesterday at the Music Hall. For there is nothing about this Miss Bishop and the even and ordered world in which she lived to disturb or upset the thoughts of any one in this hectic day. In fact, there is little about her to disturb anything, save perhaps a random tear. "Cheers for Miss Bishop" is decidedly a lavendered and lace-adorned memorial to a sweet and tender way of life now spent.The story is taken from the novel by Bess Streeter Aldrich and prepared by a group of capable writers who might have done better with it. For actually they have made it nothing more than a sixty-year-long account of the career of a noble little lady who teaches at a Midwestern school. There are the usual and expected little crisesthe meeting with her first class, that young and disappointing love, the adoption of her cousin's baby girl, a second and more sedate affair of heart, her eventual retirement from teaching and that final testimonial from all her pupils who have become great successes in life. But that's all. There is no excitement, no experience much more violent than that of sipping tea before a cozy fire in grandmother's sitting room on a Winter afternoon.Like "Good-bye, Mr. Chips," which it very suspiciously resembles in every way but one, "Cheers for Miss Bishop" makes much of nostalgic recollections and the gracefulness of growing old. But it often makes too much of them, and tends uncomfortably toward the quaint or laboriously cute. There is a slightly spurious ring to many of its little touches; antiquity is made a repeated joke. A gasoline buggy, after all, is not so tremendously funny. And there is nothing original about old age. People are growing old every day.But that is the one accomplishment with which every one connected with the making of the picture seems to have been most impressed. Martha Scott, who plays the title role, is charming as a young woman but very feeble when bowed down with years. William Gargan, as her life-long suitor who never gets beyond a forehead kiss, is the same: he bubbles and glows as a young fellow and behaves like a mausoleum as an old man. It goes for all the others, too, for practically every one in the film is a victim of gathering years and the make-up man's artistry. And Tay Garnett's slow and obvious direction has not helped any of them very much.True sentiment is a rare thing, and we wouldn't make light of it. But the sentiment in this picture is heavily overdone. Some one was saying that Miss Bishop is the feminine Mr. Chips. With all due respect to her gender, we definitely say she is not.
EVER since Adam said to the Lord in the Garden of Eden, "The woman thou gavest me tempted me, and I did eat," stupid and weak men have been trying to deflect mankind from their own sins by casting the malodor of them upon some too confiding women.
When the Giants and Athletics clash at the Polo Grounds on Saturday for the first game of the World Series two entirely different schools of baseball will opposed each other. Manager John J. McGraw is, and always has been, a typical player of the old fighting school. Aggressiveness is the keynote of his style. He drives his players at top speed.
PRINCETON, N.J., June 18.--The one hundred and thirty-seventh annual Commencement exercises at Princeton are ended. The orations have all been delivered, the degrees and prizes awarded, the ivy planted, the parting songs sung, and the good-bye pipe smoked.
The Overland Expedition in Search of Sir JOHN FRANKLIN is, perhaps, as deeply interesting as ally marine effort. Sir JOHN RICHARDSON set traversing Quebec early in the Summer of 1818, and traversing all that wild region stretching between the Lakes and the Arctic Sea, explored the shores of those gelid waters in pursuit of the long lost voyagerWhile he was unsuccessful in his main object,
ERE brother met brother in fratricidal strife on the sanguinary fields of battle in the war of secession, known to modern United States history as the "late unpleasantness." Luties Leathers was by far and a way, the prettiest piece of calico in Oxvillo, Tennessee, and James Tanner was desperately in love with her.
As a successor to "Der Raub der Mona Lisa" there is at the little Europa an ingenuous German-language film farce with tuneful music. It bears the title of "Liebeskommando" and has the distinct advantage of having been directed by Geza von Bolvary, who made both "Zwei Herzen im Dreivierteltakt" and "Der Raub der Mona Lisa."This time Herr von Bolvary's story is not nearly as subtle as the previous vehicles, but it succeeds in being mildly amusing. Like his Berlin colleagues, Herr von Bolvary is a master of detail and he has gone to great pains to enhance the value of this frivolous tale with compelling atmospheric effects.The plot recalls that of an old French play," Les Vingt-huit Jours de Clairette," for it tells of the adventures of Antonia while impersonating her brother as a student in the Austrian military academy. Apparently the only person in the secret is the commandant's daughter. There are several farcical incidents, during which the officers and the other students are called upon to be strangely myopic. Antonia succeeds in evading the scrutiny of the men, but toward the close of the proceedings Lieutenant von Lorenz, played by Gustav Froehlich, suspects the truth.The reason for Antonia masquerading as her brother is because they are descended from a long line of warriors, but the father because of being an invalid was prevented from being a soldier. He has lived so long in Italy that his German is faulty when it comes to genders in that language and this fact serves to arouse laughter when the old man discovers that his daughter and, not his son as he supposed, is at the military academy. It is because the son, who prefers to be a student of music instead of war, wins a prize for a composition that the father investigates matters.When Lieutenant von Lorenz realizes that the little person in uniform is a girl there are further farcical situations and likewise when the commandant one day observes a cadet entering his daughter's room.Dolly Haas gives a vivacious portrayal as Antonia. Herr Froehlich is competent in his rle. Anton Pointner makes the most of the part of the commandant.Robert Stolz, composer of the melodies for "Zwei Herzen," "Das Lied ist Aus" and "Der Raub der Mona Lisa," is responsible for the agreeable musical airs in this film.Executors of the will of Mrs. Ceclia Belasco, wife of the late David Belasco, theatrical producer, filed with Surrogate John P. O'Brien yesterday an accounting of three trusts in her will, showing that the value of the residuary estate was $232,395 and that Mrs. Renia B. Gest, their daughter and wife of Morris Gest, producer, had received payments totaling $19,850 as life tenant of the residuary fund. The payments made to Mrs. Gest, who lives at 71 East Fifty-second Street, cover the period from Nov. 25, 1927, to May 14, 1931, the date of her father's death.Mrs. Belasco died on Dec. 22, 1926.The other funds accounted for provided for Mrs. Belasco's sister-in-law, Mrs. Carrie Loverich, and her niece, Mrs. Lottie L. Harris, both of Los Angeles. Mrs. Loverich, the report showed, had received $2,065 from her fund, worth $12,593 on May 14, 1931, and Mrs. Harris had received $1,235 from her trust, valued at $7,513.Six concerts have been arranged for the next two weeks to be presented in the hospitals of the city under the auspices of the music committee of the New York City Visiting Committee. Mrs. Richard Aldrich will be the sponsor of a concert at Seton Hospital today and Mrs. William C. Rockefeller at City Hospital on Friday.Other concerts include one in memory of Anthony Schulte in the tuberculosis wards of Metropolitan Hospital on Monday, one at Randalls Island through Mrs. Alonzo Sexton next Wednesday, one at Coney Island Hospital through Mrs. Douglas Robinson on May 5 and one in the psychopathic and tuberculosis wards of Bellevue Hospital through Mrs. William C. Osborn on May 6.As a successor to "Der Raub der Mona Lisa" there is at the little Europa an ingenuous German-language film farce with tuneful music. It bears the title of "Liebeskommando" and has the distinct advantage of having been directed by Geza von Bolvary, who made both "Zwei Herzen im Dreivierteltakt" and "Der Raub der Mona Lisa."This time Herr von Bolvary's story is not nearly as subtle as the previous vehicles, but it succeeds in being mildly amusing. Like his Berlin colleagues, Herr von Bolvary is a master of detail and he has gone to great pains to enhance the value of this frivolous tale with compelling atmospheric effects.The plot recalls that of an old French play," Les Vingt-huit Jours de Clairette," for it tells of the adventures of Antonia while impersonating her brother as a student in the Austrian military academy. Apparently the only person in the secret is the commandant's daughter. There are several farcical incidents, during which the officers and the other students are called upon to be strangely myopic. Antonia succeeds in evading the scrutiny of the men, but toward the close of the proceedings Lieutenant von Lorenz, played by Gustav Froehlich, suspects the truth.The reason for Antonia masquerading as her brother is because they are descended from a long line of warriors, but the father because of being an invalid was prevented from being a soldier. He has lived so long in Italy that his German is faulty when it comes to genders in that language and this fact serves to arouse laughter when the old man discovers that his daughter and, not his son as he supposed, is at the military academy. It is because the son, who prefers to be a student of music instead of war, wins a prize for a composition that the father investigates matters.When Lieutenant von Lorenz realizes that the little person in uniform is a girl there are further farcical situations and likewise when the commandant one day observes a cadet entering his daughter's room.Dolly Haas gives a vivacious portrayal as Antonia. Herr Froehlich is competent in his rle. Anton Pointner makes the most of the part of the commandant.Robert Stolz, composer of the melodies for "Zwei Herzen," "Das Lied ist Aus" and "Der Raub der Mona Lisa," is responsible for the agreeable musical airs in this film.Executors of the will of Mrs. Ceclia Belasco, wife of the late David Belasco, theatrical producer, filed with Surrogate John P. O'Brien yesterday an accounting of three trusts in her will, showing that the value of the residuary estate was $232,395 and that Mrs. Renia B. Gest, their daughter and wife of Morris Gest, producer, had received payments totaling $19,850 as life tenant of the residuary fund. The payments made to Mrs. Gest, who lives at 71 East Fifty-second Street, cover the period from Nov. 25, 1927, to May 14, 1931, the date of her father's death.Mrs. Belasco died on Dec. 22, 1926.The other funds accounted for provided for Mrs. Belasco's sister-in-law, Mrs. Carrie Loverich, and her niece, Mrs. Lottie L. Harris, both of Los Angeles. Mrs. Loverich, the report showed, had received $2,065 from her fund, worth $12,593 on May 14, 1931, and Mrs. Harris had received $1,235 from her trust, valued at $7,513.Six concerts have been arranged for the next two weeks to be presented in the hospitals of the city under the auspices of the music committee of the New York City Visiting Committee. Mrs. Richard Aldrich will be the sponsor of a concert at Seton Hospital today and Mrs. William C. Rockefeller at City Hospital on Friday.Other concerts include one in memory of Anthony Schulte in the tuberculosis wards of Metropolitan Hospital on Monday, one at Randalls Island through Mrs. Alonzo Sexton next Wednesday, one at Coney Island Hospital through Mrs. Douglas Robinson on May 5 and one in the psychopathic and tuberculosis wards of Bellevue Hospital through Mrs. William C. Osborn on May 6.
A REQUEST for an anecdote," said Michael Morton, playwright, "reminds me of the story which they tell of a famous English comedian who was invited to dine at the house of some 'nouveaux riches.' During a lull in the conversation at the dinner table the actor's hostess turned to him, demanding suddenly,' Say something funny for us, do, Mr. ----- '"
John P. Lord, son of Rev. John Lord, LL. D., died yesterday afternoon at Stamford, Conn.  The Sea-side Sanitarium at Rockaway Beach has hospitably entertained 900 destitute sick children and mothers during the past week.
This morning, the steamboat Washington left this city with the Whig Committee of Arrangements, for the reception of Gen. SCCTT, and proceeded up the river to Tacony, where Gen. SCOTT arrived at about 1 1/2 o'clock. As soon as the cars arrived, a Sub-Committee was appointed by Mayor GILPIN, who proceeded to the cars and escorted Gen. SCOTT on board the boat amid the enthusiastic cheers of those on board.
To the Editor of the New-York Daily Times: I have been induced on various occasions to visit Castle Garden with a view of ascertaining how far that establishment has answered the purpose for which it has been employed by the Commissioners of Emigration, and after a minute examination of matters in general, I feel it a duty imperatively incumbent on me to testify to the public the perfect
The fact that within the last day or two there have been anxious inquiries from Europe as to the new position Gen. BUTLER has assumed in reference to the finances and the payment of our debt, gives proof that upon one matter at least our public men and political parties will have to be careful as to what ground they take.
A House of Commons fresh from the hustings is easy of division, This is the time when it ought to be secured by the chief who expects to do anything; for every month, every affair of a night, every trifling incident, tends to obliterate pledges and to supply new motives or new pretences for action.
The non-commissioned staff officers of the Eighth Regiment are to hold a meeting tomorrow night. Capt. Alfred C. Jefferson, Company C. has resigned. George B. McClellan has been elected First Lieutenant of Company E.
A Stage Ride through Missourj. NO. IV. WING'S STATION TO CALIFORNIA. At this point our Vermonter resolved to aba??don us. He had sold his seat from Booneville on to a fellow-passenger; and so lcontemptible an idea had he gained of our mode of conveyance, that he did not care to retain it even for the two miles remaining, over which he was still entitled to ride (occasionally.)
The politicians, during the past two or three weeks, have been extremely busy; nor is there likely to be a cessation of political excitement until after our municipal election in May. The People's Party have nominated two candidates for municipal offices. The first, Mr. BROWN, for the office of City Treasureran important and responsible position.
Notwithstanding the favorable weather, the attendance at the Creedmoor shooting was much smaller yesterday than on the preceding Saturday. Still, more than 300 soldiers put in an appearance, and practiced faithfully all day. High scores were the exception rather than the rule, both at the marksmen's and at the sharpshooters' ranges, owing to the strong breeze that blew all day in the wrong direction.
THERE were several bottles of wine opened the other evening at the Manhattan Holel over the winning of a wager that proved the extent to which the building of the Rapid Transit subway impodes the service of the Fourth Avenue trotley line.
A little group of literary men were discussing the distinct loss sustained by American letters in the death of Bret Harte. One of them related the story of how Harte came to lose his post as Consul at Glasgow.
That the need for hospital supplies of all kinds in France was never more urgent than at the present time is indicated in a cable dispatch received on Friday by the American Red Cross. The cablegram, which was from the official representatives of the Red Cross in Paris, was as follows:
THERE'S no denying the fact that throughout a goodly part of the civilized world a strike of vast proportions is in progress -- the strike of a sex. For that is what the whole feminist movement, with its allied phenomena of dwindling birth rates, servant problems, ousekeeping difficulties, and disappearing home life, amounts to.
IN a week crowded with new plays and under conditions which deprive the reviewer of a day ordinarily given up to the preparation of the Sunday comment it is only possible to refer briefly to the more interesting developments in the theatres.
NOT until he was postively assured that the woman did not want a situation would the manager of the auction rooms consent to talk business.
This week open tournament golfing will be divided between two of the best Summer links in the country, namely, the Point Judith Country Club of Narragansett Pier and the Kebo Valley County Club of Bar Harbor. The former begins to-morrow, and lasts four days, while the Kebo Valley competition begins on Tuesday.
Simon says wig-wag, thumbs are up, and the altitude of the goose is lovely. I hasten to write again, sooner than usual, that I may have a chance to say "Didn't I tell you so?" although I believe I did not.
Four hundred and forty-seven new members were added to the Merchants' Association yesterday, the third day of the drive for new members, making a total of 1,123 new members and bringing the total strength of the organization to 7,012.
MEDICAL ethics are just at president receiving a remarkable amount of attention in England, where the General Medical Council recently removed from the statutory register of medical practitioners the names of several physicians, on the ground of "infamous conduct in a professional respect."
A great accession to our society are the newly-arrived diplomats from Washington, who, last year, were the preferred companions of all who think intelligent conversation is better than idle gossip, and high breeding a greater accomplishment than to dance the polka. The Swedish,
Mr. Sydney Rosenfeld has contributed to the American stage a new work which is serious in design and novel in substance. Mr. Rosenfeld, since he wrote "A Possible Case," has been looked upon by unprejudiced observers as a promising American dramatist. He has been an American dramatist, for that matter, for nearly twenty years, as he wrote things for the stage in his boyhood.
The annual Fail Parade of the First Division, on Monday last, was a success, and the National Guard of this City have reason to be proud of the fact. A full description of the parade appeared in Tuesday's issue of the TIMES, and it only remains for us to speak of the many improvements already made, and suggest others that might be adopted with advantage.
Speeches of Brigham Young. John Young, Heher Kimball, ,  What the Mormons Threaten. We have received our files of the Descred News, to Nov. 4. The papers are filled with in flammatory speeches from BHIOHAM YOUNG, JOHN YOUNG, HEBER C/ KIMBALL, and other prominent Genders. We make extracts from some of the more spicy specimens of Mormon fulminations, tending to show the spirit that possesses the Saints:
A strange apparition flitted through Printing-house-square yesterday morning, a remnant of the masquerade carnival; a wonder to the unchins who have their habitat in the park and "blag your boots," or abuse you, if you refuse to have them blacked. "A part of the procession," says one. "Barnum's Arab," says another, "Ned Buntline," said the older ones to whom the face was familiar. The old boys were right; it was Ned Buntline returned to the scene of his former exploits in the costume of a modern Greek -- a red fez cap, white satin tunic reaching almost to the knee, white silk stockings, red merino leggings, laced up over the calf of the leg, red shoes, and a blue girdle around the waist, a classical and patriotic combination of the national colors, composed the dress of this extraordinary figure. Without much regard for the proprieties of gender, Mr. BUNTLINE remarked that he was the Goddess of Liberty, and was about to head the procession at the celebration of our victories. The original programme being set aside on account of the weather, the small boys of the neighborhood improvised a procession, and the "Goddess of Liberty," represented as a modern Greek, marched up Chatham-street at their head.A strange apparition flitted through Printing-house-square yesterday morning, a remnant of the masquerade carnival; a wonder to the unchins who have their habitat in the park and "blag your boots," or abuse you, if you refuse to have them blacked. "A part of the procession," says one. "Barnum's Arab," says another, "Ned Buntline," said the older ones to whom the face was familiar. The old boys were right; it was Ned Buntline returned to the scene of his former exploits in the costume of a modern Greek -- a red fez cap, white satin tunic reaching almost to the knee, white silk stockings, red merino leggings, laced up over the calf of the leg, red shoes, and a blue girdle around the waist, a classical and patriotic combination of the national colors, composed the dress of this extraordinary figure. Without much regard for the proprieties of gender, Mr. BUNTLINE remarked that he was the Goddess of Liberty, and was about to head the procession at the celebration of our victories. The original programme being set aside on account of the weather, the small boys of the neighborhood improvised a procession, and the "Goddess of Liberty," represented as a modern Greek, marched up Chatham-street at their head.
The London News' Portsmouth correspondent says: A train is now lying at the Portamouths Railway jetty which, when it receives its freight, will have the most remarkable load that ever has been carried on an English railway.
Inquiry into the circumstances of the first ten boys and girls who won Tiffany medals and cash prizes in the Lincoln competition conducted by THE TIMES shows an interesting diversity in their lives. Two of them were severely handicapped, one by blindness, the other by deafness. A third can only be kept at school by the determined efforts of his father a pushcart peddler, who has been ill with appendicitis.
PITTSBURG, Oct. 29.--The romance of a sleeping car, it seems to me, has never been written. There are more queer things and funny things and pleasant and unpleasant things happening in a sleeping car in one night than in a steam-ship in a week; still the steamer is thought to be romantic and the car prosaic. When things do happen on a steamer...
The story of a Negro Insurrection in New-Orleans had little foundation, if the newspaper accounts may be trusted. The alarm excited by the report of the plot will probably have the effect of inducing the adoption of more severe precautionary measures.
Karloff, loose as a goose.As Senator Borah was saying of the war the other day, "there's something phony" about a feminine vote in support of the comfortable masculine conviction that woman's place in the home. Virginia Van Upp, Katharine Brush and Grace Sartwell Mason, the authors of the Paramount's new comody, "Honeymoon in Bali," have reaffirmed the ???ale prejudice so cogently and have given their own sex such short shrift that we can't believe they meant it. It may be, of course, that they chose to betray their gender out of jealousy of Madeleine Carroll, which would be understandable. We suspect the more probable explanation is that they were writing with their tongues in their cheeks, simply to humor the trousered tribe.What they have been up to, at anmy rate, is the wittily and at times naughtily written diary of a successful career girl who boasts that she has ruled love out of her life and abjectly has to take back every word of it after she meets a conquering male from Bali.The scriptic trio hasn't exactly played square with its career girl. She never has the last line; her surrender is unconditional, with none of the honors of war. But the ???an from Bali has everythingself-confidence, complacence, even an alliance with a cute little 4-year-old standing in the need of adoption. His victory is predestined, and ???ound to annoy the feminists no ???nd.Apart from its philosophy, suspect as it is, the film is engagingly played and has a half-dozen scenes which would justify our calling it one of the best comedies of the ???ear were it not for a half-dozen others which tend to cancel them out. We are delighted with Akim Tamiroff's bits as an interloping window-washer, with Fred MacMurray's account of his five Bali-???ese handmaidens, with Miss Carroll's demure explanation of her transparent nighties, with Allan Jones's singing, with Osa Massen's charming Danish accent and general behavior (that being apart from the Danish) and with the appearance of Bennie Barlett as a ???inging telegram.But, on the debit side, there is the inexplicable bit in which a 4-year-old, who has never prayed, offers her first prayer to the devil because, as she too precociously explains, "every one prays to the Lord." And there are the pointless penultimate scenes in which the writers, running a fever of inspiration, come downand bring the comedy with themwith all manner of silly complications. This part of it is inexcusably tiresome. Had the film hewn to a straighter narrative course our report this morning should have been entirely favorable. As it runs, "Honeymoon in Bali" is bright, clever, romantic and uneven.At Loew's CriterionYour old friend, Boris Karloff, who not only makes a tidy business of being resurrected from the dead, out usually contrives to be resurrected in a sequel, does another amusing encore to life in "The Man They Could Not Hang," at Loew's Criterion. If you don't know Mr. Karloff by this time, we will explain: He is the man whose funerals are never final. You lay a wreath on Boris in one corner and he is certain to appear in another, full of obscure, graveyard resentment, sworn to get you, if it's the last thing he does.But, even when it IS the last thing he does, you can never really be sure about Boris: Drive a stake through his heart; post sentries at the cemetery gates; drop bombs on his cortege: the chances are that he will still survive. Karloff is humanity's answer to mortality. If he didn't exist, it would be necessary to invent him, if only to strengthen our faith in the essential indestructibility of the human breed.In the present case, Mr. Karloff is a physician who eventually heals himself of death by means of an artificial heart (not to be confused with the Lindbergh patent) which makes it possible for a surgeon to perform more efficient operations by placing the patient in a mortuary condition before the operation instead of afterward. Arrested before he can restore life to his first voluntary guinea pig, and convicted before you can say Boris Karloff, Mr. Karloff is summarily hanged and, being legally dead, devotes the remainder of his artificially restored life to the agreeable task of getting even with the judge, the jury, the prosecuting attorney and the material witnesses for their zeal in going after his life's blood.He fails, of course, but the failures of Mr. Karloff are more interesting than the successes of ordinary homicides.
Little can be added at present to the statements which we have published concerning the arrests that Col. BAKER'S detective officer have recently made among the bounty-brokers. Further arrests...  Little can be added at present to the statements which we have published concerning the arrests that Col. BAKER'S detective officer have recently made among the bounty-brokers. Further arrests were made yesterday; but in the Colonel's absence his subordinates do not feel at liberty to disclose names; and the public must, therefore, wait patiently until the detective officers think it prudent to make a complete revelation. This time may not come until the accused are brought to trial. We have, however, the gratifying assurance that there is to be no unnecessary delay in arraigning the prisoners, it being Col. BAKER's desire to finish his work at the earliest period possible; and with this view he has gone to Washington to make arrangements for the speedy assembling of a court-martial for the trial of the persons whom he has sent to the Old Capitol prison.
The Tammany Hall Democracy, summoned by big posters, Capt. RYNDERS' gun in the Park, and a band of music on the balcony of the " Old Wigwam," gathered in great numbers, last evening, at their ancient shrine, where they offered sacrifices in honor of "the regular nominations." There were high priests on the platform: Capt. RYNDERS and JOHN COCHRANE
Col. BENTON, it will be seen by his letter in another column, made haste to write from Cincinnati, proclaiming his determination to support BUCHANAN and rua for Governor of Missouri himself. The Colonel is evidently inclined to play a sharp game with the Democracy of Mis-
THE CRYSTAL PALACE OPENING. Mr. TABER offered a resolution declaring the appreciation of the Legislature of the high importance of the great Industrial Exhibition, and accepting the invitation to attend the opening, which was adopted. THE ACKNOWLEDGEMENT OF DEEDS. Mr. BEEKMAN had consent to have the bill amending the act authorizing Commissioners to take proof and acknowledgement of deeds in other States, read, and it was passed.
--Flaxie Growing Up. By Sophie May. Illustrated. Boston: Lee  Shepard. NewYork: Charles T. Dillingham.--The author in the present volume gives a continuation of the Flaxie Frizzle series. It is a pleasant story, written specially for little girls, and has a number of pretty illustrations.
By order of the Navy Agent, yesterday at 12 o'clock there was a grand auction sale at the Navy-Yard of condemned stores and clothing, relicts of the U. S. storeships Supply and Lexington, from their recent return from the Japan Expedition. At the hour designated the vicinity of the Storehouse, where the sale was to take place, presented a motley group of expectant purchasers.
If everybody would "let well enough alone," and not officiously or otherwise seek to mend it, everybody would be better off. While not impugning the charitable motives of certain ladies and gentlemen who insist on voluntarily visiting the different United States hospitals hereabouts, and distributing fruit and other luxuries to the sick, their good sense and discretion are open to severe criticism.  If everybody would "let well enough alone," and not officiously or otherwise seek to mend it, everybody would be better off. While not impugning the charitable motives of certain ladies and gentlemen who insist on voluntarily visiting the different United States hospitals hereabouts, and distributing fruit and other luxuries to the sick, their good sense and discretion are open to severe criticism. They do actual injury by a well meant but ignorant application of their charity. There is nothing wanted in any of the United States hospitals, either in the way of comforts, luxuries, or aught else, that the United States Government does not liberally supply; and as to the surgical and medical care, the nursing and the attendance, these are conceded to be of the very best. It is to be presumed that the surgeons in charge know better the condition of their patients and their requirements than occasional philanthropic visitors, who have neither the opportunity nor the inclination to inform themselves of the particulars and condition of individual cases. They visit the hospitals certainly with the best intentions, loaded down with fruit, jams, jellies, &c., etc., and indiscriminately and profusely turn them over to the sick, when in many cases such are of immediate and positive injury. We know of two instances of death caused by this thoughtless philanthropy. The Government, as we have said, furnishes all things in profusion -- fruit, vegetables, preserves, &c., &c., and they are dealt out to the patients with all the liberality their cases will admit of. No more tender care could be taken of the soldiers, nor more solicitude exhibted for them, and it is to be doubted if as much, by these well-meaning but indiscreet and touchey outsiders of either gender, than is evinced and exhibited by the U.S. officers in charge of them. This meddlesome intrusion, well-meaning it is, works no good, but actual harm, and we notice lately has induced a very untruthful and ungenerous reflection on our Government and its officers, in a paper which, were it better posted as to the facts, would better post the public on them.
The crowd which gathered about Tammany last evening, dispersed and reassembled several times before the old wigwam showed any signs of life. Not only was there no "Rynders pocket-piece," to scare the echoes in the Park, but there was no tarbarrel, there were no rockets or Roman candles. Not to speak of a full Band of music, there was not even a single drum or fife. Tammany was dismal.  The crowd which gathered about Tammany last evening, dispersed and reassembled several times before the old wigwam showed any signs of life. Not only was there no "Rynders pocket-piece," to scare the echoes in the Park, but there was no tarbarrel, there were no rockets or Roman candles. Not to speak of a full Band of music, there was not even a single drum or fife. Tammany was dismal.
Chicago Anarchists Spies, Parsons, Engel, and Fischer Hanged; History of Crime; Their Lives; Feeling in New-York and Elsewhere
The popular festivities and superstitions connected with the commencement of the New Year can probably be derived from an earlier period of antiquity than any other now-existing customs. History tells us that the practice of giving New-Year's gifts originated with TATIUS, King of the Sabines, who reigned at Rome conjointly with ROMULUS, about 2,600 years ago.
--The mourners and admirers of an estimable character, Chaplain FULLER, will be glad to hear that a memoir of his life, by RICHARD F. FULLEE, has been issued by WALKER, WISE  Co., of Boston.  -- The mourners and admirers of an estimable character, Chaplain FULLER, will be glad to hear that a memoir of his life, by RICHARD F. FULLEE, has been issued by WALKER, WISE & CO., of Boston. Chaplain FULLER was a brother of MARGARET OSOLI, and early in the war, accepted the chaplaincy of a New-England regiment. The story of his career is told mainly from the pen of the deceased. The men and things discussed belong to the active present, and are fresh with interest. An excellent account of the combat between the Merrimac and the Monitor will be found to be one of the most interesting chapters of the volume.
The popular festivities and superstitious connected with the commencement of the New Year can probably be derived from an earlier period of antiquity than any other now-existing customs. History tells us that the practice of giving. New-Year's gifts originated with TATIUS, King of the Sabines, who reigned at Rome conjointly with ROMULUS, about 2,600 years ago.
A short excursion which I have just taken in Argolis and over the Isthmus of Corinth, was crowded with interest and pleasure, and afforded a grateful relief from the hot air and arid soil of Athens. Rising before the break of day, on the 21st, our party, consisting of Mr. BLACKIE, tile learned Professor of Greek at the University of Edinburgh, another Scotch scholar, and myself, with our intelligent guide FRANCOIS, drove to the Piracus,
ROBBERY OF JEWELRY IN BLEECKER-STREET  A CASE OF MISPLACED CONFIDENCE. Two parties named ELLEN FOX and WM. LAMBERT, were yesterday brought before Justice QUACKENBUSH, upon the complaint of Mrs. CHARLOTTE GUEST, of No. 391 Bleecker  ROBBERY OF JEWELRY IN BLEECKER-STREET -- A CASE OF MISPLACED CONFIDENCE. -- Two parties named ELLEN FOX and WM. LAMBERT, were yesterday brought before Justice QUACKENBUSH, upon the complaint of Mrs. CHARLOTTE GUEST, of No. 391 Bleecker-street, who alleges that the prisoners stole from her private apartment, on the 5th inst., property consisting of a box of jewelry, a crape shawl, a gold watch and chain, and other valuables, amounting in all to $267. The testimony discloses the fact that ELLEN had recently been in the employ of Mrs. GUEST, as a dressmaker, and while there she had an opportunity to learn the place where her employer kept her valuables. The evening previous to the theft ELLEN learned that the complainant would be out the next forenoon; she accordingly made her arrangements, entered Mrs. GUEST's private apartment when there was no one in the house to interfere with her plans, took the property and departed. The shawl was subsequently recovered at a pawn shop, where it had been pledged by ELLEN. The remainder of the property has not been found. The other prisoner, LAMBERT, is known to have presented some of the other articles at a pawn shop in Greene-street, but the pawnbroker refund to receive them in pledge on the ground that he suspected them to have been stolen. The latter prisoner has recently abandoned an intelligent and amiable wife and seven children, who reside in Forty-third-street, and has since been living with ELLEN FOX at the corner of Crosby and Spring streets, where both parties were arrested by Officer BOWER, of the Second District Police Court. The Magistrate committed ELLEN for trial. The other party was discharged, the evidence upon this complaint being deemed insufficient.
High on the hills which embrace that pretty inland watering-place, Little Sittingbourne, stands Pentagon-terrace. Among stories which record the tragic follies of mankind with the special aim of showing that jolly is often as wise as wisdom--and wiser--this structure ought not to be forgotten. Its origin may be briefly told.
Por, presenting trophy awarded by 1913 class for Columbia Univ football player with highest scholastic standing to J L Campbell
It is really amusing to see the effect upon the London Times of the capture of NewOrleans. The events of that desperate seafight seem to have thrown the Thunderer into ...  It is really amusing to see the effect upon the London Times of the capture of New-Orleans. The events of that desperate seafight seem to have thrown the Thunderer into a state of doubt and confusion quite remarkable to witness. But the same determination never to admit that any possible good could come out of our Nazareth; the same utter blindness to any valor or skill or determination on the part of our officers and soldiers is just as apparent as heretofore. Thus, for instance, it quotes that expression of one of our Commanders, that "it was a contest of iron hearts in wooden vessels, and iron-clad with iron beaks, and the iron hearts won;" of which it says that "this Commander goes so far as to declare, in his very pardonable exultation, that the victory was nothing less than a victory of wood over iron;" and it declares that if that statement "were an actual description of the affair, the story would be almost beyond comprehension or belief."
If we may judge by the experiences of Saturday, the people of New-York are not likely to make themselves particularly ridiculous in connection with the Japanese. They have seen too many strangers of all sects and colors, and tasted too heavy excitements, to be thrown very far off their balance  even by the envoys of a prince whose very existence was a sort of myth to most of us a very few yeas ago.  If we may judge by the experiences of Saturday, the people of New-York are not likely to make themselves particularly ridiculous in connection with the Japanese. They have seen too many strangers of all sects and colors, and tasted too heavy excitements, to be thrown very far off their balance even by the envoys of a prince whose very existence was a sort of myth to most of us a very few yeas ago. Were the Brother of the Sun and Moon, or the Sun and Moon themselves, to send us an embassy, we fancy the good people of Gotbam would contemplate the strangers with a temperate curiosity not to be equalled out of Paris. Much as we have been abused and quizzed for our "wild enthusiasm," our people have a native good sense which discriminates between events which touch the passions and those which merely move the wonder of the crowd.
It was with the air of a man profoundly indifferent to his own successes that Gerard Strickland, twitching his cuffs and stretching his arms before letting his hands fall into his lap, sank back into the luxurious arm chair by his library fire, after throwing on the table the letter that announced his promotion to an enviable post in the Civil Service.
I do not know that I went into ecstacies, but I certainly felt a great deal of sober pleasure and devout thankfulness on awakening this morning to hear the heavy pattering of rain upon my tent-roof.  HEADQUARTERS DEPARTMENT OF VIRGINIA AND NORTH CAROLINA, IN THE FIELD, Tuesday Evening, July 19, 1864.
BEER CATTLE. These are chiefly sold at the by ASHINGTON DROVE YARDS, 44TH-STREET. and at the NEW-YORK YARDS, Forty-fourth-street; BROWNING'S, on Sixth-street ; CHAMBERLIN'S, on Robinson-street, and O'BHIEN'S, on Sixth-street. Our reports refer to these regular markets. Irregular sales are sometimes made at Bergen Hill, N.J., and from the Hudson River boats.
NINETEENTH WARD.--In noticing the disturbances at the polls of the Nineteenth Ward, on election day, one report stated that the rioters who destroyed the ballot-boxes, proclaimed themselves the friends of Alderman Edwards, and that the reason of their proceedings was their belief that he was defeated.
Cigar Trade Meeting on Municipal ReformFollowing the example of their brother workingmen the iron workers, the workers in wood, the engravers, printers, lithographers and others, the workingmen of the segar trade held a grand mass meeting at Cooper Institute last evening, for the purpose of adding their indorsement to that of the Citizens Association.
--Mystery is the great staple of novel writers, especially of those of the female persuasion. These latter transfer the veil from their own faces to shroud the characters they invent.  -- Mystery is the great staple of novel writers, especially of those of the female persuasion. These latter transfer the veil from their own faces to shroud the characters they invent. At every turn and corner of their stories they mystify the reader by all manner of weak devices, pointing in a different direction from that they actually intend to take, flitting before you with simulated lameness, like the lapwing, to lead you away from the nest where their young brood of callow secrets lie. Of this art, Mrs. HENRY WOOD is the high handmaiden. She moves in a more mysterious way her wonders to perform than our own FERNANDO does. Her characters go through her stories as ships in crowded seas glide around in a fog, ringing bells to keep out of each other's way and carefully avoiding a meeting. Her last work, very properly christined The Mystery, is published by PETERSON & BRO., of Philadelphia, from advance sheets, for which a fabulous price is said to have been paid. The story is an ingenious one, and well managed in the main. A murder is committed, without any adequate motive on the part of the murderer, and the blood is sprinkled around in such a mysterious manner, that it is difficult to fasten it to the skirts of any one. A little girl, in a very innocent manner, manages to be everywhere where she should not be, and to hear everything that was least intended for her to hear. Were she not more retentive of talk than most young ladies are, she might set a great deal of doubt and trouble at rest in the early part of the story; but she preserves a most remarkable reticence, and permits the characters to go knocking their heads against each other, as awkward people do in dancing the Lancers. She is a very remarkable little girl, indeed, and eventually a most exceptional young lady. Truth compels the admission that Mrs. WOOD weaves quite an exciting and interesting chain of narrative from what seems at first glance to be rather slender material, though most readers will guess what is behind the mask long before the authoress removes it.
Newport is at present in the height of its glory. The "season" will reach its culminating point about the 15th, but for at least a month after that time, beauty, wealth and fashion will link the days into rosy series of gaiety and enjoyment.  NEWPORT. R.I., Saturday, Aug. 11, 1860.
The city is all in a buzz this morning over great preaching yesterday, in the Bowery. The Chief Apostle HYDE; opened the ball in a most extraordinary discourse upon "precedents " that had been established by the Gentiles towards the Mormons, setting forth that the measure that had been measured to the followers of JOSEPH SMITH, or as they style themselves, the Saints, that some would be measured to them again.  Correspondence of the New-York Times.
CommencementThe third annual commencement exercises of the Cooper Institute took place in the large hall of the building on last Friday evening, in the presence of a fine audience. The literary exercises consisted of orations by ALEX, THAIRE, MARSHALL, LONG, EWING M. FOX, J.F. CHAPMAN and FRANCIS J. TUCKER, and a very meritorious poem on "The Progress of Learning." by ALFRED E. PARKS, of the Chemistry Class. The singing, by about three hundred of the pupils, who were present on the stage, and led by Mr. BRISTOW, elicited deserved applause, especial merit being attached to Miss G. HARTSHORNE, and Miss M. MCINTYRE, M.J.A. KEANE, and R.J. JOHNSTON, who each sang solos.
Presbyterian Assemblies, O. >amp; N. S., Proceedings ofIn the New School General Assembly, in session at Dayton, O., on Wednesday last, in reply to an overture from the Presbytery of St. Lawrence, in regard to appointing a committee to confer with a similar committee of the Old School Church, as to the practicability and the terms of reunion, the following overture was unanimously adopted:
Last evening closed the festival at Plymouth Church, and concluded the cordial welcome by the scholars to Rev. Mr. BEECHER. There was the same profusion of flowers, the wreathing wore the same rich green appearance, the canaries still poured forth their flood of song, while the emblems and mottoes seemed to lose none of their significance or appropriateness by being viewed a second time. In the Sunday School-room, the fountain and the bower surrounding it had lost none of their attractiveness, continuing to be a special object of admiration. It may not be improper here to state that the fountain, presented by a lady to the Sunday School at their first festival, is permanently located in this room. In its sparkling jet of limpid water, it must always be suggestive of the purity of which it is typical.Last evening closed the festival at Plymouth Church, and concluded the cordial welcome by the scholars to Rev. Mr. BEECHER. There was the same profusion of flowers, the wreathing wore the same rich green appearance, the canaries still poured forth their flood of song, while the emblems and mottoes seemed to lose none of their significance or appropriateness by being viewed a second time. In the Sunday School-room, the fountain and the bower surrounding it had lost none of their attractiveness, continuing to be a special object of admiration. It may not be improper here to state that the fountain, presented by a lady to the Sunday School at their first festival, is permanently located in this room. In its sparkling jet of limpid water, it must always be suggestive of the purity of which it is typical.
A meeting was held at the Astor House, yesterday, for the purpose of organizing a Home Guard, Hon. CHAUNCEY SHAFFER in the chair. A meeting was held at the Astor House, yesterday, for the purpose of organizing a Home Guard, Hon. CHAUNCEY SHAFFER in the chair. It is proposed that 20,000 men be enrolled for this guard, 10,000 whom will be armed with the Minie rifle. Many of our most influential business men have already enrolled their names in this corps, and it is expected that the majority of our leading merchants will become members of the Metropolitan Home Guard. Mr. GEORGE LAW was present and was offered the command of the Legion, but declined, stating that his sympathies were with the movement, but that his many engagements would not allow him to accept the honor. He was then offered the chairmanship of the Association, which he refused on the same grounds. Finally he was elected a member of the Committee for the further and better organization of this movement. Mr. LAW also said that he would assist the movement with all his might, and that his aid would be given just as freely, and to as great an extent, as though he were at the head of the organization.
EIGHTEENTH DAY. The House reassembled at 9 o'clock. Morning Prayer was said by Rev. Dr. MEADE, assisted by Rev. Dr. VAN INGEN. The resolution sent down from the House of Bishops, ordering the Secretary to prepare an index of all the Journals of the Convention, came up for discussion, and after a short debate was adopted, with the following amendenent: "If the funds of the Convention be sufficient to defray such expense."
Ohio, Dedication; Bellevue Hospital College, >amp;c.; At Dedication of Mount Union College; F. C. Lowell on Cruelty to Prisoners; J C H, CorrespondentBELLEVUE HOSPITAL MEDICAL COLLEGE,
SAN FRANCISCO, Cal., Thursday, Jan. 5, 1860. There is not a poorhouse in California. This is  not owing to any lack of practical charity; there is not a community in Christendom that springs sooner to pick up a falling brother than this. But it comes of the fact that there is nobody here to put in a poorhouse. If, as occasionally happens, a woman, whose ...  SAN FRANCISCO, Cal., Thursday, Jan. 5, 1860.
Grand Reception at New-YorkThe night of the 20th of November will be ever memorable in the social history of the metropolis, as the occasion when the more prominent men of the city open house to the many who desired to greet a hero and shout acclaim in honor of a glorious soldier. When it was first known that Gen. GRANT would, with his, family tarry a few days in this city, it was suggested that a public demonstration of some nature should be made in recognition of the esteem entertained for him by our citizens. Two objections were urged: one, that the visit here would be quite brief, and entirely occupied to private businees; the other, that such a proceedings would be in absolute disregard of the General's reported dislike of parade or show. The project was abandoned for a time, but upon consultation it was ascertained that the General could so arrange his affairs as to find a spare evening for the reception of his friends. Several meetings were held by the gentlemen prominent in the matter, and after a little the project assumed shape and became the topic of town talk. Circulars were issued to one hundred and fifty persons, suggesting that each member of the body subscribe $100 toward defraying the expenses of the reception. The gentlemen invited were only too happy to comply, and having paid their money, were admitted to the General Committee. The following are the names of the subscribers:
On Monday morning, March 14, at five o'clock, Gen. LEE left Franklin with as fine a body of cavalry, probably, as now exits in any of our departments  accompanied by three fine batteries NIME,' RALL'S, and one other and on Saturday afternoon he reached Alexandria, on the Red River, which had already been occupied by Gen. SMITH, who led a corps of  ALEXANDRIA, Wednesday, March 23, 1864.
LONDON, Friday, Jan. 6, 1860. The Rifle Volunteer movement is still on the  increase, but the fructification of the crop of Cadmus is by no means so real or so solid as may be imagined over Europe, except by the best-informed men, or even in England, where popular notions prevail.  LONDON, Friday, Jan. 6, 1860. The Rifle Volunteer movement is still on the increase, but the fructification of the crop of Cadmus is by no means so real or so solid as may be imagined over Europe, except by the best-informed men, or even in England, where popular notions prevail. A foolish Lord, one of the modern type of fussy, priggish, conceited, busy noblemen, is doing more to check, and injure the growth of the volunteer corps by his efforts to render them ridiculous in appearance, than the titled utilitarian coxcomb can possibly be aware of. Lord ELCHO has hitherto been connected with arts rather than arms. In the former he has displayed a connoisseurship just sufficient to obtain him the respect of the coteries in London, and the contempt of artists and amateurs on the Continent. That he is a humbug in judgment, and a flunkey in patronage, I scarcely think that MORRIS MOORE, that most renowned and ill-treated art-critic, would deny. There are men born to be wrong, even when most intending to do right. There are insects which perform the functions of life when their brains are removed and replaced by cotton-wool. Among human insects there is often to be seen a melancholy amount of activity coexistent with the normal absence of the cerebral matter. Give such a creature opportunities in the shape of a fortune, a title, a seat in the House, and a diarrhoea loquendi or scribendi, and it is surprising what mischief may be effected by so small a thing.
MR. CHAIRMAN, LADIES AND GENTLEMAN: The object which brings us together, even if it had not been so satisfactorily stated and so persuasively enforced by the gentleman who have proceded me, sufficiently explains itself. MR. CHAIRMAN, LADIES AND GENTLEMAN: The object which brings us together, even if it had not been so satisfactorily stated and so persuasively enforced by the gentleman who have proceded me, sufficiently explains itself. At the call of the President, seconded with the most praiseworthy and almost unexampled energy of the Governor of Massachusetts, a numerous force of volunteers has patriotically hastened to the defence of the Capital of the United States, threatened with invasion. The war, for a long time though in profound peace secretly prepared for, has been openly commenced by the South, by the seizure of the undefended forts, arsenals, dockyards, [???] and custom-houses of the United States, and the plunder of the property contained in them, in flagrant violation of the law of the land, if the South is still in the Union, and equally flagrant violation of every principle of international law, if she is out of the Union. But even these acts of treason and rebellion (for such they are,) are thrown into the shade by the last unutterable outrage upon the flag of the Union, at Fort Sumter, (a fort which no more belongs to South Carolina than it does to New York or Massachusetts) which has carried twenty millions of freemen as one man to its defence.
Another large Republican meeting way held at the Cooper Institute last evening, under the auspices of the Republican Central Campaign Club.  Another large Republican meeting way held at the Cooper Institute last evening, under the auspices of the Republican Central Campaign Club.
Reply to C. A. Bristol on improvements; on our Domestic ServantsTo the Editor of the New-York Times:
The Breckinridge and Lane Democratic State Convention have made the following nominations:  For Governor, JAMES T. BRADY, of New-York; for Lieutenent-Governor, H. K. VILLE, of Buffalo; or Canal Commissioner, JOHN M. JAYCOX, of Onondaga; for State-Prison Inspector, ROBERT W. ALLEN, of Kings.  Special Dispatch to the New-York Times.
RED HOUSE PLANTATION, PORT ROYAL ISLAND, Thursday, Sept. 17, 1863.RED HOUSE PLANTATION, PORT ROYAL ISLAND, Thursday, Sept. 17, 1863.
Craik, G. L. English Language and LiteratureIf there is one subject of a purely literary nature that proves attractive to every person of ordinary culture -- a common ground where members of all sects, and parties meet on an equal footing, induced by an instinctive taste for the study -- it is certainty our vernacular tongue, and the wide range of inquiry connected with its mechanism, etymology and distinctive characteristics, compared with other, languages of the earth, as an organ of national thought and expression. An aptitude for these pursuits has long been shown by Americans. Acute minds have always found pleasure in dwelling on them. The number or works on grammar produced in this country during the present century far surpasses what England has done; nay more, that the mother country is indebted to them for its standard vocabulary and the generally accepted rules of its speech is proved in a moment when the names of NOAH WEBSTER and LINDLEY MURRAY are recalled; while in the higher learning of modern philology the works of GEORGE P. MARSH, though but recently written, at once took acknowledged rank among the most valuable contributions ever made to the history and philosophy of the language.
What and Where to BuyAn unsuccessful tradesman from the backwoode--who does not diligently peruse the advertisements in the TIMES--says that his most perplexing task is that of making his purchases when he comes to New-York. A thriving merchant from the interior, who studiously reads the announcements of our advertisers, is not thus bothered; for he pockets the TIMES as a directory, and is by it guided to precisely the places that he seeks; and if he is not thoroughly up in the geography of the town, he sends to No. 21 John-street for one of
There is a very natural anxiety to know all about the antecedents of those who are to be the leaders of the Grand Army of the United States in the pending contest, and below we give brief sketches of the Generals recently appointed: There is a very natural anxiety to know all about the antecedents of those who are to be the leaders of the Grand Army of the United States in the pending contest, and below we give brief sketches of the Generals recently appointed:
The celebrated lawsuit, known as the "Lemmon Slave Case," has at last been reached upon the calendar of the Court of Appeals, at Albany. Yesterday, upon the opening of the Court, Mr. CHARLES O'CONOR, who is nominally retained by the plaintiff, but actually by the State of Virginia, proceeded to present the case of his clients. It may be proper briefly to recapitulate the facts of the cause of action.  The celebrated lawsuit, known as the "Lemmon Slave Case," has at last been reached upon the calendar of the Court of Appeals, at Albany. Yesterday, upon the opening of the Court, Mr. CHARLES O'CONOR, who is nominally retained by the plaintiff, but actually by the State of Virginia, proceeded to present the case of his clients. It may be proper briefly to recapitulate the facts of the cause of action.
Speech on Murder of President Lincoln; His death; Death; Fenton's Gov, Proclamations, >amp;c; Death; New-York meetings. Wall-st, >amp;c.; Death ofEXECUTIVE CHAMBER, ALBANY April 15.
The drawing of names for the United States service recommenced in the Fifth District yesterday morning. At 9 o&#8217;clock, the hour previously fixed for the opening of the Draft, there was much less interest and excitement manifested than on the preceding day, and the throng in and around No. 413 Broome-street was thinner. The same force of police and military that had guarded the premises under the charge of Inspector LEONARD, of the Metropolitans, Capts. JORDAN and BRYANT, of the United States Infantry, were on duty, and will continue at their post during the draft in the Fifth District. Their arrangements for the preservation of order were admirable, and quiet and good humor seemed general.The drawing of names for the United States service recommenced in the Fifth District yesterday morning. At 9 oclock, the hour previously fixed for the opening of the Draft, there was much less interest and excitement manifested than on the preceding day, and the throng in and around No. 413 Broome-street was thinner. The same force of police and military that had guarded the premises under the charge of Inspector LEONARD, of the Metropolitans, Capts. JORDAN and BRYANT, of the United States Infantry, were on duty, and will continue at their post during the draft in the Fifth District. Their arrangements for the preservation of order were admirable, and quiet and good humor seemed general.
Guaranty Survey sees pressure for rise to meet current and new spending as threat to econ, '50
CIO and AFL publish lists of Cong members who voted 'right' or 'wrong' during 81st Cong 1st session
Warner Bros confirms reptd negotiations with Justice Dept for consent decree to split assets into 2 cos
Estimate Bd to conf on creating posts of exec asst at $15,000 yr and asst at $12,000 for Deputy Mayor; Comr Minetti reptd slated for exec asst post
Dems plan 2 cross-country radio repts, 1st on 81st Cong accomplishments and 2d on work to be done; seen as background for State of Union message
Marshal Montgomery says West can avert war through US aid and unity, s, NYC; stresses communism menace; Amb Jessup cites importance of Western econ unity; says world trusts US and GB
NYS Dem Com invites pub to attend legis program policy-making conf in NYC on Dec 12, 13
Sec Johnson says Paris conf of Defense Com will seek over-all defense plan; with Gen Bradley and other US mil leaders conf with Marshal Montgomery, Washington; illus
Truman signs last bill of Cong session; 792 bills signed, 32 vetoed, 2 pocket vetoed for session
P Willkie urges local and natl 'idea' confs, modeled on New Eng town meetings, as forum in planning parties programs, lr
Tobin backs Lehman, radio s; substitutes for McGrath; J M Mead starts 5-day tour for Lehman
C E Dickinson estate atty W F Thompson files triple damage suit against Schine Theatre chain, Lockport, NY, charging film distribution monopoly
Independent Motion Picture Producers Soc pres E Arnall says exch com seeks soc's approval for modification of '48 Anglo-Amer Film Agreement
H H Lehman backs bill; charges Dulles is indifferent; holds Gov Dewey failed to back liberal legis, '48
Truman comments on party discipline issue; defends practice of party officials exerting pressure on Cong; says persons elected on party platform have duty to carry out party pledges
NY Appellate Ct upholds Paramount Pictures on stock appraisal in reorgn decision reverses NY Sup Ct ruling in S Kokol suit
Pres Truman says lower bracket incomes can be raised to $3,000 under Fair Deal, s, Kan City
WASHINGTON, Sept. 27 (UP) -- The text of President Truman's broadcast to the women of the country today follows:...
Fed Judge dismisses Dipson Theatre, Buffalo, NY, suit against major film distributors and local Shea Theatre interests
Paramount Pictures gets modification of Sup Ct consent judgment to relieve New Theatre Co ctf holders of paying tax on withheld divds
Proposed consent decree to divorce producing-distributing from theatre enterprises in Warner Bros, Loew's Inc and 20th Century Fox filed in Fed Ct
M J Quill repts Communists consider running P Robeson and that H A Wallace doesn't want to run against Lehman; Communists spokesman ridicules statement; Robeson Conn residence noted
RKO Radio Pictures seek time extension to complete plan for separation of interests as agreed to to Sup Ct consent decree
Essaness Theatres and others sue Fed Dist Ct, Chicago, charging 12 major producing, distributing and theatre cos and 2 individuals with monopolistic practices
Sen Lucas and Speaker Rayburn defend 81st Cong record, radio ss; pending and enacted legis revd
cartoon on Battle victory; Krock further comment; labor, ADA and Pres Truman roles in campaign discussed
A A Berle and E G Arnall score monopolies; charge laws are ineffective; Arnall offers plan; Dr J Blair lists FTC enforcement problems
105 Repubs from 27 states conf in Chicago at behest of F A Virkus, and financed by com of 12 including Gen R E Wood and former Repr R B Vail; aim to revitalize party; current leadership assailed
Fed ct orders Warner Bros, Loew's and 20th Century-Fox to divorce theatre from production-distribution enterprises; will be allowed to set up separate cos to hold certain theatres; ct refuses United Artists, Universal Pictures and Columbia request to modify injunctions barring certain trade practices
A H Feller article on history; cites progress toward functional world law since San Francisco Conf; sees Internatl Ct ruling on UN rights significant step
A TEXAS JUDGE has handed down the opinion that any man who is picked up on the street in dress clothes after midnight can be arrested for vagrancy.
Injunctions against the sit-down strikers, prayed for by General Motors, have been granted by a Michigan circuit judge. The strikers have been occupying several of the plants of the automobile company and preventing it from operating them.
Both House and Senate have re-passed the Sundry Civil bill "rider" forbidding the use of funds for enforcing the anti-trust law against a majority of those whom it affects, and it is said, as though by authority, that the President will regard that fact as warrant for his signature.
The responsibility for educating and training future leaders of the bar rests in the first instance with the great law schools of the country. New York has taken pride in the knowledge that one of the recognized leaders in this field of professional education is the School of Law of Columbia University.
ed on Shawcross and Jackson statements; Internatl Mil Tribunal departure from principle that guilt is personal, not collective, noted
Local law No. 45 of 1936, commonly known as the McCarthy Increment Law, provided that civil service employes who had served at least one year in a position calling for an initial salary of $1,800 a year or less should be entitled to four annual salary increments of $120 each.
Two words contained in the leading editorial in THE NEW YORK TIMES today underscore the clue to much of what has happened in the historic past of the world's nations and which also provide an insight into the future.
Realism and speed have been promised by House leaders on amended DP legislation that will be worthy of this country's great traditions. This is the only answer to the shameful and unworkable law passed by the last Congress, and a sign that humanitarianism is still a force in men's reasoning.
WASHINGTON, March 31 -- The Service Men's Voting Bill draws sharp distinctions between the use of the Federal (short ballot) and the full State ballots. Service members stationed in the United States are restricted, with a few stated exceptions wherein the States cannot provide their own, to the use of the State ballot and are required to apply for it on application forms furnished by the armed services.
The National Labor Relations Board occupies the ramshackle, eight-story former Rochambeau Apartment House on Washington's Connecticut Avenue. From this building over the past twelve years the three-member NLRB issued rulings and interpretations under the National Labor Relations (Wagner) Act -- which labor called its "Magma Carta."
That the prohibition debate will flame up with fresh fury when Congress meets next week there is every indication in the news from...
As one thinks of the kind of warfare that is being conducted today, the noble old science of international law takes on, by contrast, a new dignity. William M. Wherry of the New York bar writes of it, as applied to aerial warfare, in a current publication of Contemporary Law Pamphlets.
The troublesome question of overtime-on-overtime, which was a major factor in last winter's dock strike, has now been eliminated as a recurrent handicap to peaceful relations between dockers of the International Longshoremen's Association, AFL, and their employers. ILA leadership had joined with employers in the maritime as well as other industries in pressing for corrective legislation.
In his address at the commencement of St. John's College School of Law Senator WAGNER made a distinction necessary to keep in mind when there is so much well-meant but lax talk about "respect for law" and "lawlessness."
It was predicted that the Jones law, making extreme and savage the punishment for violation of the Volstead act, would strike terror to the heart of bootleggers.
" Law," says Mr. HOOVER in his first annual message, "cannot rise above its "source in good citizenship--in what "right-minded men most earnestly be  lieve and desire."
The Mack utility investigating committee was authorized by joint resolution of the State Legislature in April, 1934, after the Federal Trade Commission had uncovered the letters linking Senator WARREN THAYER to a utility company payroll. In the report it has now submitted, it finds, with a few exceptions, "no impropriety" existing between any member of the State Legislature or public officer and any person interested in public utility companies.
Sometimes an insignificant litigant with a trifling case brings about a judicial decision of the most far-reaching importance. As HOOKER said of the law, its care extends to "the least" as well as the greatest. JOHN and ROSALA BLAISDELL, his wife, of Minnesota, could not pay the interest on a mortgage which they had given.
Fifty persons who have answered the questionnaire sent out by the League of New York Theatres in its campaign against the censorship bill at Albany are unanimously opposed...
Business men in branches of trade which have been treating their problems on a group basis will scan carefully every line of the decision of the Supreme Court with respect to the operations of the film boards of trade and credit committees.
THE legitimate theatre, frequently the purveyor of gaiety, has dropped all pretense of frivolity in its discussions of a script prepared in Washington by Messrs. Taft and Hartley. Not even the threat of censorship or the promise of new theatres ever started so much conjecture.
When he signed the Industrial Recovery Bill yesterday President ROOSEVELT stated that "history" would probably regard it as "the "most important and far-reaching "legislation ever enacted by the "American Congress." That depends upon the result.
That $100,000 in cash secretly accepted by FALL was a bribe, according to the jury that tried and convicted FALL.
Perhaps this city needed such an eye-opener and nerve-shocker as the brutal murder of a woman who was preparing to give testimony to Judge SEABURY about police corruption.
Ed, Law and Literature, on his art in Yale Review on literary style of judicial opinions, &c
Last year in thirty-one American cities one out of every 10,000 inhabitants was a victim of homicide. According to FREDERICK L. HOFFMAN, our chief authority in this field, the urban rate for about 40,000,000 Americans was 10.5 per 100,000, as compared with 1.3 in Canada and .5 in England and Wales.
A Kansas jury has given the answer to HOWAT's defiance of courts and law. He had been found guilty of willful and avowed contempt of court before, but next Friday he will be...
According to an Associated Press dispatch, an Assistant Secretary of the Treasury has ruled that Cuban, imports put on the free list by the Cuban Reciprocity Agreement of 1897 are to stay on the free list, whether made dutiable by the Fordney-McCumber Tariff law or not. This seems a singular ruling.
THE author of these two stately volumes, who died some months ago, was an authority on international law, had been a lecturer on colonial  government at George Washington University, and was a member of the Executive Council of the American Society of International Law.
Massachusetts Sup Ct refuses Communist party plea to restrain state oath law from taking effect Oct 28; party suit on const noted
Mr. GOMPERS regards the Coronado decision as a blow at "the very founda"tion of the organized labor movement "of America," and he proposes an appeal to Congress and the people to rec- ...
The dilemma of the leading insurance companies of New York respecting the compulsory sale of their stocks is an example of the difficulty of regulating business by law.
Foreign officials plan for natls evacuation in emergency; 3 killed, 110 injured in strikers battle; martial law threatened to end allegedly Communist-inspired riots
J Black, in lr, advocates Bible and teachings of Christ as cure for evil instead of nagging laws
Only time will tell whether the new law to regulate use of sound trucks, passed by the City Council by a vote of 15 to 3, will pass muster before the Supreme Court. That Court, on June 7, in a 5-to-4 decision in the Lockport case, created considerable uncertainty over just what steps local authorities could take constitutionally to protect the public against abuse of the privilege of amplified free speech.
lr on attempts made by Judge Ford for suppression of obscene literature in comments on similar movement by Lord Eidon
Martial law reptd imposed, southern dists, after sabotage and partisan outbreaks; USSR radio urges pub revolt against govt
According to advices from Washington, the American Federation of Labor "has abandoned all hope of repealing the Taft-Hartley Act at the present session of Congress." The Federation's leaders are reported as concluding, at the end of an all-day discussion, that it would be a "waste of time" to continue their efforts.
Several issues are involved in the fight that the A. F. of L. and the C. I. O. are making against the new Oregon Labor Law. These issues call for separate consideration. Whether, as the unions contend, the new law so affects the operation of the Oregon Unemployment Compensation Act as to deprive the State of the right to a tax credit under the Federal law is for the Social Security Board to decide.
The United States Commissioner of Immigration is manifestly justified inhis-assertion that the new Immigration law has behind it the "general trend  of public opinion" and of opinion in Congress; he is justified in his assertion ...
As against the insensates who seek to destroy the American polity, Vice President COOLIDGE'S remark, however obvious, can never be repeated too often:...
Bishop MANNING'S remarks about prohibition are doubly effective because he has never been a prohibitionist and has no personal or moral objection to moderate drinking. Yet he believes from information coming to him "from many trustworthy  "sources that prohibition is already  "resulting in improved conditions,
With the Governor's signature of the Fischel bill, New York again has a Minimum Wage Law. The recent decision of the Supreme Court on the Washington State law having wiped out the legislative "no man's land" in this respect, once more women and children will be protected from exploitation by unscrupulous employers.
The Supreme Court decision holding unconstitutional the trial of civilians by military courts in Honolulu during the war reaffirms the historic attitude of the court and of this country's leaders.
Ger to inc Alsatian youth into army; evaders to be punished; Muelhausen youth shot in attempt to cross frontier
If you assault a postman or anybody else you get into serious trouble with the law. If your dog assaults a postman you are not liable to damages unless he can prove that the dog was of a vicious propensity and you knew ...
lr on gen disregard of '44 Veterans Preference Act provision for veterans retention during econ cuts
The Lea Act, better known as the anti-Petrillo Act because it originated in an effort to curb the highhanded activities of the president of the American Federation of Musicians, has been declared unconstitutional in a Federal District Court in Chicago.
The Association of the Bar of the City of New York has set a fine example for Congress in its consideration of changes in the Taft-Hartley Law. The association turned over the task of formulating labor law recommendations to a committee made up of twenty-two attorneys, including a number who devote most of their professional careers to representing unions or large corporations on labor matters.
To the Editor of The New York Times: The newspapers inform us that fleets of vessels notoriously engaged in the illicit importation of intoxicating liquors and drugs are permitted to hover of our coasts, within sight of shore, but beyond the so-called three-mile limit, awaiting a favorable opportunity to con summate the unlawful purpose of smuggling their cargoes to our shores.
While we shall all have to pay roundly for the strike which seems to be dissolving, if one may use the expression, like an injunction, it is some intellectual and moral consolation to...
The law's delay, ed urging that House follow Sen in passing amendment to Federal Judicial Code to help end delays
The Greater New York Building Zone law has now been in operation over five years. The protective requirements are shown on three maps, known as height, area and use. The charter provides that changes in the maps can be made only by the Board of Estimate. The aggregate changes are extremely small in ...
INFLEXIBILITY, duty, obedience and frugality are the stuff of martyrs. Also of bigots; sometimes it is hard to draw the line. In the north of France are wealthy or well-to-do bourgeois families as avaricious as peasants, as proud as ancient royalty and as tribal as red Indians.
W Gellhorn views Gwynne bill as weakening Wage-Hr Law; says Natl Consumers League and other non-partisan, non-labor organizations oppose it, lr
A clear-cut issue is presented to the people of New York City in Michael J. Quill's threat of a transit strike. That is the issue of law versus lawlessness.
According to the philosophy of MARX, the "iron law of wages" was that capital would exploit labor by absorbing the excess of its production above wages until the world experienced such misery that the capitalist system would collapse in catastrophe.
The breakdown of prohibition has never been as painfully manifest as in the scene created in a well-known restaurant by two Enforcement Officers. Stripped of its melodramatic incidents, which were thrilling enough, their offense ...
Magistrate SIMPSON has dismissed the Vice Society's complaint against three books, including works of D.H. LAWRENCE and ARTHUR SCHNITZLER, and in the act made some sensible observations. These were important ...
During the current housing crisis, methods involving the exercise of a form of pressure against tenants have sometimes been used to turn rental apartments into "cooperatives." Many truly "cooperative" projects are, of course, unexceptionable -- when, for instance, the tenants of a building willingly agree to purchase their own apartments.
Gov Marland signs bill providing for operations on all prisoners thrice convicted of felonies Involving moral turpitude, Okla
In your analytical editorial of Oct. 7, "Wartime Taxes," you state that the objective of a wartime tax bill is not primarily to pay for the war; that the primary purpose must be to minimize the danger of inflation.
Mr. Hurrell was born in Fort Erie, Ont., on Feb. 12, 1874. After attending the village school and a business college in Buffalo, he entered-the insurance business as a bookkeeper, and later worked for the Delaware, Lackawanna  Western Railroad. Desiring to become a lawyer, he gave up his railroad position and entered the Buffalo Central High School at the age of 22.
Mr. WILLIAM D. HAYWOOD, One of our most gifted, accomplished and experienced seditionaries and criminals, is missing again.
"It is idle to speak of the blessings of liberty," writes CHARLES E. HUGHES in presenting the current report of the Legal Aid Society, "unless the "poor enjoy equal protection of the "laws." During 1920 the society conducted 30,466 cases and received $147,000.
The Federal Wage-Hour Law goes into effect today. It is now, broadly speaking, illegal for any employer engaged in interstate commerce to pay his workers less than 25 cents an hour or to employ them more than fortyfour hours a week. If he does employ them for longer than that time he must pay them at one and a half times the regular hourly rate.
W Sammons comments on power of consumers to prevent injurious legis, apropos of defeat of Calif chain store tax proposition
BERLIN, Oct. 26 (AP) -- Premier Braun of Prussia said today that yesterday's ruling by the Supreme Court meant that Germany was still a country where the Constitution and the law were supreme and that members of the Prussian Cabinet were particularly pleased that the court bad exonerated them of charges of being remiss in their duties.
The strike news from San Francisco and other cities on the Coast, as well as from turbulent Minneapolis, is reassuring. Employers have agreed to arbitrate their dispute with the longshoremen. In Portland there is no longer fear of violence, except in sporadic cases, or of a general strike.
Reply to lr of H Alfred claims that Wagner-Ellenbogen Housing Bill will confiscate millions invested in old-law bldgs
The Court of Appeals has ruled that liens imposed to guarantee payment for repairs which would make tenements healthful and safe are "unconstitutional both under the Federal and State Constitutions."
Ed on recommendations of Judicial Council which became law in recent session of Legis and on relief of calendar congestion
Warns staff of U S Embassy in Paris to avoid involvement in disturbances; assures Sec Hull of safety of personnel, in transatlantic talk; Hull says he must have misunderstood Straus when reptd martial law in France is denied
With the expiration of its contracts with the city only a few days off, the Transport Workers Union is doing all in its power to make a new agreement impossible. Their statement -- or perhaps one should say the statement of International President Michael J. Quill -- issued on Monday evening is a misinterpretation of plain facts.
WASHINGTON, Aug. 7 -- Chief points of agreement and disagreement between the reports on revision of the securities laws submitted today to Congress by the Securities and Exchange Commission and a committee from the financial industry follow.
It is only a chance coincidence that the Institute of International Law opened its annual meeting in this country at the very time when Prime Minister MACDONALD was here. Yet there is a subtle if undesigned relation between the two events.
Addressing the Canadian Bar Association, Mr. JAMES M. BECK of New York urges that wars should be made impossible by international laws, courts to interpret them, and "some co-operative effort to enforce them." This may he a counsel for angels rather than for Canadians or Americans.
WASHINGTON, Aug. 15 -- In an oral opinion rejecting a plea of Texas refiners for an injunction against orders of Secretary Ickes prohibiting interstate shipment of oil produced in violation of State regulations, Justice Joseph M. Cox in the District of Columbia Supreme Court today upheld in principle the National Industrial Recovery Act.
In Newark, N.J., Santa is required to pass a stiff physical examination before he can serve in a department store. And even then it is verboten for him to kiss any of the
For upward of six months officials of the Securities and Exchange Commission and representatives of the Investment Bankers Association, the Stock Exchange and other financial organizations have been discussing proposals for amending the various security laws administered by the SEC.
ENGLAND has discovered, as New York State sometime may, that adultery is not the only valid grounds for divorce. It took a humorist not only to point out the fact but to do something about it.
WASHINGTON, Nov. 2 -- E.M. Ebert, director of the bureau of inquiry of the Interstate Commerce Commission, asserted in a brief filed today with the commission that the Alleghany Corporation has violated Paragraph (4) of Section 5 of the Interstate Commerce Act, and that the commission should take such action as, in its judgment, is warranted to prevent further continuance of such violation.
In his welcome to the members of the Institute of International Law Mr. HUGHES touched ironically ugon the incomparable pre-eminence of the United States in the lawmaking industry. The automobile factories
THE "unwritten laws" of bridge -- questions of ethics and sportsmanship -- are far more carefully observed in expert play than in casual bridge games. Misleading hesitations, side remarks, undue emphasis in bidding and histrionics of all kinds, are frowned upon in high-ranking club and tournament play.
Denies C F Carusi's statement that legal education has been taken out of the hands of practicing lawyers, lr
law forcing charge of $3 on each $1,000 on works of art hurts traveling exhibitions of Amer. Federation of Arts, editorial
Much has been heard of what the Volstead act accomplishes, or fails to accomplish; little has been done to call attention to its unique character. It is the only law which creates a crime and incites to felony. It is the only law which makes inebriety a vaunted achievement and not a misfortune to repent of.
The Board of City Magistrates has found a sensible and practical means of dealing with open-air seditionaries. The City Magistrates hold that the spouters of sedition can be punished, upon due evidence from the police, under the statute defining disorderly conduct.
When Lieut. BECKER'S second trial closed on May 22, with a verdict of "guilty," seventeen months almost to a day had passed since his first trial closed in the same manner. Yesterday it was announced that his counsel would appeal again. How long that process will delay the final outcome of the case it is impossible to say.
Two months ago the Supreme Court declared that under the Clayton act of 1914 and the Norris-La Guardia act of 1932 labor unions (unless they combine with non-labor groups) are exempt from the anti-trust laws. This week the court, without giving its reasons, decided against the Department of Justice in three more cases brought against unions under those laws.
Ed on Ct of Appeals decision in case of Perlmutter vs Greene; State wins right to preserve beauty
Ed on bill in N Y S Legis for amendment to law regarding "gifts, grants and devises of real property for charitable purposes,"
J H Thomas announces royal comm will investigate, Parliament cool to plan, Arabs displeased; 2 more killed, Jerusalem curfew law tightened
The Devany Bill excludes from the civil service and from teaching in the public schools persons who advocate forcible overthrow of the Government.
Editorial on US Sup Ct having power to decide whether an enactment of Cong is really a law
The decision of the new Attorney General that the wording of the immigration restriction act of 1924 made it mandatory for the President on or before April 1 to proclaim the national origins system effective beginning July 1 prevented Mr. HOOVER from following his personal inclination and belief.
In his guarded and moderate address to the House of Delegates of the American Medical Association, Dr. WILLIAM SYDNEY THAYER, its president, spoke of "intemperate" Federal laws, of attempts "to legis"late for the whole country as to "what we may or may not eat or "drink."
Wife of Judge Hertz sues Prof R Knota of Vienna for "insulting" criticism of her composition
The repute of Senator GLASS, on account of his work in the enactment of the Federal Reserve law, is deservedly so high that his judgment of its needed amendment is entitled to respect. We must confess regret, however, at the position which he appears to have taken in regard to the bill which he has laid before the Senate Banking Committee.
The report of the State Housing Commission emphasizes the relation between emergency measures and a permanent program of relief. The emergency is passing. Rents are decreasing in the open market. Vacancies are more numerous, due to enlarged construction.
Every great reform which has been effected has consisted not in doing something new, but in undoing something old. The most valuable additions to legislation have been enactments destructive of previous legislation, and the best laws which have been passed have been those by which former laws have been repealed.
Discussion of the merits of the mimeograph patent case decision must be influenced by facts which did not appear in the pleadings, and which the court could not consider. The sale of ink which was held to be an infringement of the patent for the machine was not one in the ordinary course of trade.
The statement in the Topics of the Times in Monday's TIMES that the Hillsville killers of court officials have proved that they were quite like other criminals when the law fell upon them with all its power is quite correct, and the romanticism of their criminal acts as due to their environment and heredity, believed in among those of a wider enlightenment, is, as he says, no excuse for sympathy.
Isn't it about time that legal procedure, civil and criminal, were simplified? The verbiage of the law is endless, it makes for confusion. The report upon the involved form of murder indictments made to the Bar Association by Prof. MIKELL of the University of Pennsylvania and Prof. KEEDY of Northwestern University gives one instance of the difficulty.
Many social workers and criminologists are dissatisfied with the workings of New York's 1926 penal laws, under which a fourth offender is automatically sent up for life on conviction of a felony. In such cases the court has no discretion. The
The Frawley boxing law has legalized prizefights in this city. Gov. DIX has repented signing it, and has asked for its repeal. "JACK" JOHNSON recently announced his intention to fight in this city under its license. Since its enactment fighters from all over the country have gathered here.
Through the United States Chamber of Commerce there will be started a movement to establish a trade tribunal "to act as a clearing house "for charges of trade abuses and to "assist in the elimination of unethical "trade practices." The new departure dates from President COOLIDGE'S action in accordance with the minority report of the Federal Trade Commission for 1924.
To EUGENE V. DEBS the law and the courts are obstacles to National development and the kind of freedom for which he works, the freedom of the red flag. His speech at Carnegie Hall Saturday night was perfectly representative of the spirit of discontent and lawlessness for which he stands.
The Real Estate Board of New York, which has been persistently bringing to the attention of the State Labor Department such provisions of the labor laws affecting factories as it believes to be unreasonable, obtained this week an important interpretation of the law on a point which is of particular interest to owners of buildings.
It is a threadbare old saying that international law is neither international nor law, but a body of rules and usages. Each State can enforce its own rules against its own subjects; but there is no Sheriff or posse comitatus of the world. Yet isn't the common law a growth of rules and customs? It is rather an encouragement ...
Senator BORAH, in proposing an amendment to the cruiser bill, used an adroit mixture of benevolence and truculence.
The decision of the District of Columbia Court of Appeals that the minimum wage law for the District is invalid seems to rest, so far as can be gathered from the puhlished extracts from Justice VAN ORSDELL'S opinion, on general and somewhat curious grounds.
Why all this controversy over Washington Square and the New York University Law School?
Giraud formally issues laws of French Repub in French Africa; com set up to adapt Vichy laws to conform; Wash reaction
IN a recent letter to the Rocky Mountain News Bruce M. Barnard, Indian agent at the Navajo Reserva  tion, Shiprock, N.M., said that it is an inviolable covenant within the Navajo Indian nation that after the consummation of the marriage pact a son-in-law ...
Four insurance companies now hold a little short of one hundred millions in various stocks which they acquired lawfully, and which the existing law requires them to dispose of during the current calendar year. Any business man appreciating the difficulty of making such a liquidation under adverse conditions will appreciate also the hardship of such a law.
State Sup Ct voids law requiring Circuit judges to sit as arbitration bd members in disputes involving utility employes
Fall meeting; closing session; reaction to A H Sulzberger s; C J Tobin and A T Powderly repts
Lr from F S Standish protests movement of various groups to force Cong to pass Sunday laws
J H Cohen urges adoption of Federal law, cites U S Supreme Court decision in case of Atlantic Fruit Co against Red Cross, lr
Last Spring the Municipal Assembly, acting under the home rule law,  virtually re-enacted the expiring State emergency rent laws as ap  plicable to apartments renting for $15 a month a room or less. These local enactments are now declared ...
In almost all editorial and other lay discussion of the Scopes ease, important and well-settled principles of constitutional law seem to be left out of consideration. These principles are:
N Y Court of Appeals decision on transfer tax cited by I M Dittenhoefer in lr on idiosyncrasies of law
The gravest of all the utterances of Magistrates and members of the bar touching the obvious defiance of the better of the law by the jury in the Heins trial reported in yesterdays TIMES, was that of Magistrate HOUSE. "I feel," he said, "that the jury was influenced by the Thaw verdict, and that we may look for more cases based on this same plea of the 'unwritten law' in the near future."
On presentation of A Jackson statue to Jackson County, and on unveiling photo of self at Jackson County Ct House
US Sup Ct refuses ruling on J W Mobley arrest by Army in Tex for return to Ger for trial in post exch racket
Bremerton, Wash, cts order Local 262 to pay damages to Enetai Inn for picketing to force bargaining agreement
Chief Magistrate Bromberger opens Legal Aid Soc criminal branch in Bklyn Felony Ct; he and Judge S S Leibowitz score discrimination against poor
Judges H L Ericsson, F J Cohn and P J Flanagan apptd to posts in US system
INDEPENDENCE, Mo., Dec. 26 (AP) -- Following are the texts of speeches delivered here today by President Truman as he presented a statue of Andrew Jackson to Jackson County and as he unveiled a photograph of himself in the County Court House:
US Sup Ct to rev const of Mich law banning strike without majority approval of bargaining unit affected, at request of UAWA and NLRB as result of '48 strike
hearing; Chief Magistrate Bromberger offers plan to consol all cts, except appeals, into 1; ltd consol plans favored
US Sup Ct, ruling Wagner Act permitted ousting under closed shop of workers who tried to set up rival union, holds Colgate-Palmolive-Peet Co need not reinstate 37 workers ousted, '45, through CIO Longshoremen's and Warehousemen's Local 6, Berkeley, Calif
Sup Ct bars rev of Justice Dept complaint that Judge B H Rice abused judicial power
NYS Judicial Council to map new const amendment for '50 Legis to ease calendar congestion; calls hearings
Acheson chides Colonial for Logan Act use; says line could have asked State Dept permit to appear; US and Canada confs set; S Janas sees Canada bd hearings as attack on US cts
US Sup Ct refuses rev of NYS ct order forcing 2 grievances arbitration, Endicott Johnson case
US Sup Ct rejects Govt charges that Yellow Cab Co and affiliates violated Sherman Act in selling cabs to Chicago, NY, Pittsburgh and Minneapolis cos
US Sup Ct sustains conviction of 2 strikers charged with using force and violence to prevent a non-striker from working, Dec, '45, at Southern Cotton Oil plant, Little Rock
US Sup Ct Assoc Justice Jackson scores practice, case of US Patent Office against V M Dorsey
Rules assocs of dirs of bankrupt corp are entitled to full divds on debentures, Calton Crescent case
US Sup Ct rules assocs of dirs of bankrupt corp entitled to full divd on debentures, case of NY Mfrs Trust Co against assocs of Calton co owning apt, NYS
Justice Dept files charge that Judge B H Rice abused judicial power in anti-trust case, US Sup Ct
US Sup Ct rules co may deduct interest paid to redeem predated coupons on consol mortgage bonds in '40 income tax returns
Sup Ct orders US and Calif to split payment of $6,269 to W H Davis for service as special master following '47 decision on ownership rights
US Sup Ct rules job security rights extend beyond 1st yr of return to job, Louisville and Nashville RR case
Pres Ospina Perez decrees Sup Ct rulings must have 3/4 majority; move seen neutralizing Ct Liberals
Sup Ct rules Washington State can compel commercial loggers to reforest cut-over areas, A Dexter vs Washington
US Sup Ct refuses rev of $1,420,000 fine levied against Lewis and UMW by Justice Goldsborough in '48
acceptance of office-type ballot thrown in doubt by rule requiring voting majority approval; 400,000 voters did not mark ballots; Atty Gen opinion sought; ct test seen
F Hague, conceding defeat of his Gubernatorial candidate Sen Wene, to step down as state and county leader
US Sup Ct declines to rule on Michigan State plea for data on unclaimed deposits, 1st Natl Bank (Detroit); US Circuit Ct ruling that state laws covering dormant accts interfere with fed control of natl banks set aside
Pope says RC judge cannot grant civil divorce when marriage is valid; Vatican sources hold pronouncement applies in case of non-Caths wanting divorce; Natl Cath Welfare Cong holds position not new; R G Burke says NY Cath Lawyers Guild awaits official interpretation
Kiliani, (Mrs) I: Sup Ct refuses to review R Cross protest that assault trial judge is prejudiced, N Tarrytown, NY
US Sup Ct refuses to rev Del River Joint Toll Bridge Comm right to order projects near Easton, Pa
Permits SEC to base Otis & Co license case on stockholder C S Eaton suit against Kaiser-Frazer Corp
H R Bryan and Mrs E G Fleischman contempt of Cong conviction for not producing Joint Anti-Fascist Refugee Com records for House Un-Amer Activities Com exam
The reappointment of Dudley F. Sicher as justice of the Domestic Relations Court will be greeted with satisfaction by all who are interested in maintaining the highest standards of the local bench. Justice Sicher has proved himself to be a jurist of preeminent abilities in the difficult post he has filled so successfully during the past decade.
Chief Justice Hyde lauds Mo plan for selecting judges; says it takes cts out of pol, s, NYS Citizens Com on Cts
WASHINGTON, Oct. 3 (AP) -- Following is the text of a letter from Federal Judge Sherman Minton to the Senate Judiciary Committee which today approved his nomination to be a justice of the Supreme Court:
Bill to end appeals to Brit Privy Council and make Canadian Sup Ct final authority passes 2d reading, Parliament; debate revd
Dems name J F X McGohey, S Sugarman, G F Noonan and I R Kaufman as candidates for Southern NY Dist posts
comment on Justices Clark and Minton alignment with 'liberal' bloc; on Ct apptmts since '37; chart
CHICAGO, Sept. 15 -- Democratic leaders in down-state Illinois today received with gratification the news of President Truman's nomination of Sherman Minton, a Democrat and a judge of the Seventh United States Circuit Court of Appeals, with headquarters in Chicago, to fill the Supreme Court vacancy caused by the death of Justice Wiley P. Rutledge.
Prof I M Wormser urges high ct justices be barred from testifying as character witnesses, NY County Criminal Cts Bar Assn hearing
Parliament opens; Gov Gen Viscount Alexander confirms Govt aim to seek power to amend Const without Brit Parliament permit and to make Sup Ct final appeal in Dominion; Prime Min St Laurent announces steps
NY County Criminal Cts Bar Assn to hold hearings on legal problems in criminal trials affecting natl security
R P Patterson blames tension on USSR violating Potsdam and Yalta accords, s, St Louis; P J Hurley scores accords as cause of tension
NYS CIO pledges to campaign for Lehman, L Hollander wire; Pres Truman pleased at candidacy; cites lr; Lacey backs Lehman; Dulles expected to announce candidacy; Jefferson County Repub Com backs him
D Dubinsky and A Rose submit Liberal Party choices for Southern NY Dist posts to Truman
Chicago City Hall: 2 gunmen, raid Munic Ct Chief Clerk office; take small amount of cash and a document
Sens H A Smith and Hendrickson urge more Repub appointees; ask Repubs be apptd to 2 NJ judgeships
Sen passes bill barring picketing of ct; marshal T E Waggaman says he will not enforce it
hearing; Rogge, Flynn and Harper testify; Sen Taft says there will be no organized Repub opposition to apptmt
apptmt of Fed Atty J F X McGohey to 1 of 4 new Southern NY Dist judgeships seen likely; Mayor O'Dwyer and Repr Marcantonio back apptmt of woman and Negro; O'Dwyer lr to Truman quoted; bar assns to pass on candidates
Sen com votes 9-2 for apptmt; dissenting Sens Ferguson and Donnell decry com failure to call Clark for questioning
Judge P J Finnegan thanks Chicago Mayor M H Kennelly for aid in securing apptmt to Appeals Ct
G Kleinman (Internatl Fur & Leather Workers), Rev C Parker, A Hendley and E O Jones testify against apptmt; R P Patterson backs apptmt
House subcom continues anti-monopoly hearings; E R Johnston says anti-trust laws interpretation rather than amendment is needed; suggests Fed Dist Cts rather than FTC try cases; woull limit guilt inference
WASHINGTON, Aug. 10 -- President Truman signed the National Security Bill today, putting in effect a new program for strengthening and streamlining both civil and military control of the armed forces.
Chmn McGrath indicates he will resign if confirmed as Atty Gen; W M Boyle Jr, Truman choice, slated successor
House com approves bill to authorize Justice Dept to withhold bail from 'undesirable aliens' convicted of crimes
Atty Gen Goldstein rules 3d and 4th Dept justices entitled to salary increases voted by Legis
Judge Sobel dismisses indictments against 16 bondsmen and 2 runners charging NYS ins laws violation; rules soliciting by bondsmen is legal; finds ct biased during hearings
High Ct of Justice sentences A Parmentier, last Vichy aide to come under its jurisdiction, to 5 yrs natl unworthiness, Paris; annuls sentence immediately; terminates own existence
most apptees yield to Repubs pending Sup Ct ruling; Norwalk judges preside jointly; Chief Jutsice Maltbie approves plan for 4 test cases
Repr Smith urges early hearing on bill to protect Fed judges from subpoena as character witnesses, lr to Repr Celler
US Sup Ct upholds SEC ruling that pfd stockholders be paid over $100 a share; utility officials hail decision
US Sup Ct dismisses H R Christoffel '48 conviction for perjury before House com for lack of proof com had quorum
US Sup Ct rules collective bargaining contract may supersede veteran seniority rights under GI Bill, Lockheed Aircraft Corp case
NY County Cts Bar Assn to investigate criminal procedure in espionage cases; will seek curbs on use of repts vital to natl security
US Sup Ct (7-2) invalidates tax on money paid out-of-state corps on sale of items made in their Ohio plants, Natl Distillers Products and Wheeling Steel Corps case
Sup Ct 5-4 Calif Standard Oil dealer contract decision scored by Justice Douglas as example of Sup Ct econ theories favoring monopoly; Justice Brandeis quoted
Sup Ct, 5-4, reverses Claims Ct ruling that Govt, Mixing ships in wartime, must pay owners at standard market rates, R S Cors '42 case
Here is one citizen who wishes to defend the Supreme Court and the Constitution in answer to critics. Through lack of understanding these malcontents go about disparaging our fundamental law. They ask many foolish questions, such as: Why aren't all laws before they go into effect tested for constitutionality in the Supreme Court?
The battle begun by President Roosevelt for reorganization of the Supreme Court has lasted for more than five months, with the following as the high points in the conflict:
Upholds right of NYS judges to impose death sentence despite jury life term recommendation, S Williams case
IT must be the backwash from the recent attack on the United States Supreme Court that has left the baseball umpires jittery. When the highest judiciary is threatened, the inferior courts probably feel that the benches may be yanked right from under them if their decisions are not pleasing to local politicians or an enraged populace.
US Sup Ct nullifies conviction of E Lustig on ground that hotel maid's keyhole peeping was inadmissible as evidence, Camden, NJ
When the Supreme Court met for the first time yesterday after its summer vacation -- if the life of a Supreme Court Justice in summer can be called a vacation -- everyone must have been reminded of the impermanence of the judges and of the permanence of the judicial institution.
Sen passes bill creating 27 judgeships; defeats McGrath motion to kill provision barring eligibility of Govt employes in Exec Branch
The National Labor Relations Board has asked the Supreme Court for "a final adjudication of the position of supervisory employes [i.e., foremen] under the Wagner Act." The board holds that because of the importance of the question a review by the court is desirable...
At the opening session of the Court of Appeals Chief Judge Lehman spoke of "the great traditions of a great court." An impartial outsider, Mr. Roscoe Pound, has expressed the general opinion by calling this "the State ...
Traffic courts, the only legal tribunals that many of our people are ever called upon to visit, have long been neglected places. Often they are set up in any old building in which cities and towns can find space for them, and almost as often they are presided over by persons none too qualified for such jobs.
There has long been an urgent need for additional judges for the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, and particularly for filling the vacancy caused by the death in March of Judge John Bright. For this post President Truman has now nominated Samuel H. Kaufman.
On account of its proposed creation of a Nassau-Suffolk Judicial District and the attribution to the courts of the power to review the law and the facts in regard to decisions by administrative agencies, the Judiciary Article of the revised Constitution was rejected by the voters.
On Feb. 1, 1790, the Supreme Court of the United States had its first session in the Royal Exchange at the foot of Broad Street in this city. At Washington yesterday the hundred and fiftieth ...
ed on ct's reversals of itself and possibility that Justice Roberta's vote in Wash minimum wages case was decided prior to Roosevelt's proposal
With all the tournaments that have been in progress, the past week has emphasized again the growing popularity of court games--squash, badminton and court tennis. In origin these are all old-timers.
For three months Governor Earle of Pennsylvania has been trying to stave off investigation by a grand jury of charges of criminal misconduct made against him and thirteen of his associates by his former Attorney General, fired for making them.
Judges, lawyers and litigants have become increasingly aware of the delays on the calendars of the Supreme Court in New York City. Justice is too slow when it takes two and one-half years to bring a lawsuit to trial, and justice delayed can turn out to be no justice at all.
In an address two weeks ago to the American Law Institute, Chief Justice HUGHES referred to divisions in our higher courts. Why should it be expected, he asked, that they would not exist? In sciences and philosophy, as well as in theology, experts of the greatest reputation differed, and it would be strange if judges did not.
One of the important matters debated yesterday in the Senate and scheduled for a vote today is ratification of an agreement which would grant Senate consent to the President's accepting for America the compulsory jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice.
All eyes will be on Mr. Justice Black when the Supreme Court meets today. This is inevitable in the circumstances. Because of the ro1e which the Ku Klux Klan has played in the life of the American people, it is not to be expected that Mr. Black's membership will be regarded as an episode easily ignored and soon to be forgotten.
Most laymen will probably agree with at least one ground of the decision of Justice Proctor of the District of Columbia Federal Court dismissing the anti-trust indictment against the Amer
To the uninitiated lay mind the issue in the gold cases before the Supreme Court appears largely to have been presented not on the constitutionality or unconstitutionality of the government's action. The issue is Constitution vs. fait accompli in the plea made by Mr. Cummings that there will be chaos if the court rule adversely to the government.
In a report which has received the approval of the American Bar Association, the National Committee Conference of Judicial Councils finds that many traffic courts in all sections of the country are "hopelessly inadequate to function effectively as a corrective agency in the traffic accident problem."
Before it reached the Supreme Court the Railway Pension Act was held by a lower court to be unconstitutional primarily for the reason that it attempted to establish a Federal pension plan for all employes of the transportation companies, "making no dis-"tinction between those engaged in in-"terstate commerce and those not so "engaged."
The Municipal Bankruptcy Act, on which the Supreme Court has just handed down a decision, is a heritage of the panic stage of the depression. Strong pressure for its adoption appeared early in 1933, and one year later Congress completed action on the measure.
Proposals to alter the procedure or the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court have been thick in Washington since the NRA decision. One plan is to have Congress pass an act declaring that no decision of the court shall be binding unless concurred in by two-thirds of the judges.
Minor causes, personal and political, entered into the rejection of the World Court treaty by the Senate. The leadership of the Administration forces was too languid. Senator ROBINSON Was so much at ease in Zion that he continued to tell the Washington correspondents and the President that ratification was certain.
THE abuses that have been disclosed do not strike at people of wealth and power. They oppress those who are poor and helpless, under circumstances where the oppressor enjoys practical immunity. A court in which these practices could have obtained, or in which they may obtain again, is not a court of justice.
President ROOSEVELT must have anticipated the strong protest made in many places against his proposal to increase the membership of the Supreme Court.
They do not play in Madison Square Garden and they stay pretty much in their own league, so Columbia's quintet perhaps receives less attention from the public than a basketball team of its status deserves. The fact is that Paul Mooney has fashioned one of his finest teams in the comparative obscurity of Morningside Heights.
One of the most improved players in the metropolitan area this year is Dick Holub of Long Island University. It hardly would be proper to say that he has been overlooked because it is extremely difficult to miss any one standing 6 feet 5 inches tall.
Felicio Torregrosa, coach of the Puerto Rico University -- E1 Universidad de Puerto Rico -- basketball team, which is to clash with unbeaten St. John's Saturday night at Madison Square Garden, yesterday told basketball writers of the advancement of sports in general, and of the court game in particular, in Puerto Rico.
ed on Justice Black's opinion failing to uphold patent for combination of known elements, United Shoe Machinery Co-Williams Mfg Co case
Before the magistrates' courts-- the "courts of first contact"--come a million persons every year. They are the tribunals of the common people in all their minor difficulties with the law.
Mr. Dooley once remarked that, while the Constitution follows the flag, the Supreme Court follows the election returns. Whether that toe a libel or no, it is no reflection on the court to say that it is generally alive to the exigencies of the times. Take, for example, the increasing responsibilities of the Presidency.
Attorney General Cummings is still following hard on the heels of that inveterate enemy of justice, delay. His annual statistical table showing the time required to bring civil cases to trial after joinder of issue has been of great help to the Judicial Conference of senior circuit justices presided over by the Chief Justice.
With all good intentions, the basketball rules committee has enormously complicated the task of floor and desk officials by permitting the entry of substitutes after a field goal. This point might profitably be restudied when the court legislators assemble next Spring.
A dissenting voice was raised yesterday to the University of California proposal that it play its Madison Square Garden game with New York University on Dec. 18 without a centre tap. The Golden Bears, blithely ignoring national rules, have been engaging in court contests on the Coast for several seasons without a jump ball.
Ed on its being N Y S Supreme Court Justices who are to sit during Summer; correcting former ed
From Washington comes word that the Supreme Court plan may be laid aside for the present session. If this report is corroborated by the developments of the next few days a great victory will have been won for the independence of the judiciary and the maintenance of the American system of checks and balances.
On the first day's calendar of the Court of Conciliation there were fifty cases. One was settled. The Court of Conciliation was set up by Justices LAUER and DAVIES on behalf of the forty-eight Justices of the Municipal Court to save themselves in their hopeless struggles with their crowded calendars.
A glum young man who had wagered against Long Island University Wednesday night when the Blackbirds played West Texas State voiced his disgust at his mistake afterward.
From a source that is unquestionably authentic but must be kept secret, it was learned yesterday that Seton Hall's basketball team, winner of thirty-six straight, had received a direct offer to appear at Madison Square Garden. The plan was to pit the Pirates against Georgetown in one game of a special double-header on the night of Feb. 10 at the Eighth Avenue arena.
A schismatic pronouncement by Neil Cohalan that his Manhattan squad would take a fling at the "firehouse" basketball so spectacularly and successfully demonstrated here by such visitors as Rice, Washington and Rhode Island supplied added evidence that the local court mentors are begining to reconsider their traditional tactical conservatism.
Lr from F A Skelton comparing his attitude on Versailles Treaty with Pres Coolidge's stand on World Court as pronounced in his Armistice Day s
It was twenty-two years ago this month that the first children's court was established in the bounds of Greater New York. But these early courts were not distinct courts in their organization, facilities and powers. They were little more than separate rooms or buildings, in which the cases of children could be heard apart from those of hardened criminals.
Ed on A R Sherriff's article in Amer Bar Assn Journal on cooperation between press and bar
An incident that occurred last week in the Brooklyn College gymnasium, where the Kingsmen were engaging Manhattan, should not be passed without comment. It was a close game, the Jaspers ultimately eking out a one-point victory, but the outcome is only secondary in this little court episode.
The Interstate Commerce Commission is a quasi-judicial body. Attempting to sway its opinions and decisions, except by argument before it, is as improper as it would be to endeavor to bring pressure upon a judge in favor of a litigant.
New York University still is unbeaten on the court and looks very much as though it might stay that way for quite some time. And yet there is a strong group which believes very firmly that the University of Kentucky quintet is the one that will perform the feat of snapping that long Violet streak.
The death of the pivot play, like the story of Mark Twain's demise, is "slightly exaggerated." That point was brought forth very forcibly last Saturday at the Garden double-header as Long Island University, Temple and St. John's resurrected the bucket play and set it up all over the court.
Clair Bee, Long Island University's energetic basketball coach, makes it his business to know as much about his opponents as he knows about his own team. Very often this added burden of knowledge is so onerous that the Blackbird mentor wishes he did not take his scouting so seriously.
The season still is young, but it is difficult to see any of the other teams in town beating City College for the metropolitan championship the Beavers captured a year ago. By turning back St. John's in the Garden last Wednesday night City hurdled its biggest obstacle and the path looks reasonably clear from here in.
The proposal of the French Government to ratify the debt settlement with the United States, only after putting into a preamble or postscript certain safeguarding clauses, leaves Washington quite unruffled. For the Administration it is officially stated that these extra flourishes of the pen of France when signing the agreement will make no difference.
Opening the doors of the Permanent International Court by the Council of the League of Nations to Russia, Germany, Turkey, Hungary and Mexico makes it virtually a planetary court.
Basketball's leading exponent of the offense, bluff and hearty Frank Keaney of Rhode Island State, cleared up some of the mystery behind those three-figure scores his teams frequently roll up when he spoke before local coaches and writers assembled for a luncheon at the Hotel Piccadilly yesterday.
A year ago St. John's had a pretty good basketball team, but it lacked spark and drive. When its scoring twins, Rip Kaplinsky and Java Gotkin, had "on" nights, the Redmen looked like a great combination. But when they couldn't find the hoop, or bewildered their teammates more than the opposition with their tricky ball-handling, then Buck Freeman's young men were very ordinary indeed.
Lr lauding law permitting Sup Ct Chief Justice to fill bench at time of justices absence or disqualification
The Sun and New York Herald somewhat ruefully remarks that there has been in this country more or less of a "haze" about the new international court on which Mr. ROOT has been working abroad.
Dr. JOHN BASSETT MOORE, who was nominated by Italy and chosen from eighty-nine nominees as one of the eleven Judges to sit in the Permanent Court of International Justice, leaves this week to take part in the organization of this court at The Hague on Jan. 30.
Ratification of the International Court by the six members of the League of Nations from the British Empire gives assurance of its early establishment.
The Kansas Industrial Court informed the flour millers whom it summoned to answer a charge of decreasing production to maintain prices that it suspended decision, and required the millers to keep the court informed on the conditions of the industry.
On another page is printed today a letter from the Bar Association to Mayor WALKER, again calling his attention to the plan for centralizing the Magistrates' Courts in the Borough of Manhattan. This is a project already submitted to the Board of Estimate with powerful support.
Discussion of the insufficient pay of Federal Judges lends interest to the inquiry made by Mr. ALEXANDER B. ANDREWS of the North Carolina Bar into the "Per Capita Cost of Courts."
The decision of the International Court of Justice that Albania must pay Britain over $2,000,000 in damages for the mining of two British destroyers in 1946 brings to a close -- so far as the Court is concerned -- the first case it has had to decide since its reconstitution under the Charter of the United Nations.
It seems to me that, regardless of the merits of the controversy between any citizen, corporate or individual, and the Commander in Chief, it is incumbent upon every loyal citizen to obey the orders and directives of the Commander in Chief in time of war, and if, after so obeying, the citizen feels aggrieved, to then appeal to the courts for redress.
It was to be expected that Colonel STIMSON, on landing in San Francisco on his way to take up the duties of Secretary of State, would express in no uncertain terms his opinion about the proposals to place restrictions on the entry...
ed, The New World Ct; cites UNO Assembly and Security Council task to elect judges to ct in accordance with UNO Charter
There is a system of legal costs so deeply ingrained in the operation of our civil courts that it is seldom questioned. Any person who wishes to institute an action must first deposit with the court a sum of money to defray expenses. Without cash, the legal mills will not turn.
The subcommittee of the House Military Affairs Committee, in its study of courts-martial and its suggestions for reform, is carrying out a clearly authorized function of the Congress. Many of the reforms it sugests for Army courts are long overdue.
In the annual report of the Director of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts one looks first for the result of the substantial filling of the long-standing vacancies in judgeships that had been an obstacle to the transaction of business in the preceding fiscal year. Then ten district judgeships and one circuit judgeship were vacant. Now one circuit and five district judgeships are vacant.
Of the eminent fitness of JOHN BASSETT MOORE to be one of the eleven Judges of the Permanent Court of international Justice established under Article XIV. of the Covenant of the League of Nations there is no need to speak.
Sen com approves N J Johnson nomination as Assoc Judge of Ct of Customs and Patent Appeals
N Bergen (NJ) Police ct; J D McCabe, ex-police recorder, indicted for embezzling fines and forfeitures
The code of military justice submitted to Congress by Defense Secretary Forrestal includes many improvements, over the present codes of the three services, in addition to possessing the major advantage of uniformity. It still does not include the one basic reform urged by every civilian group that the armed services have appointed to advise them -- namely, separation of courts-martial from command and placement in an independent Judge Advocate General's office.
In your excellent editorial in THE NEW YORK TIMES for Dec. 1, where you discussed the vacancy in the Court of Appeals of this state caused by the resignation of Judge Thacher because of his failing health, you point out aptly that "the best available person" should be designated by the Governor to fill this highly important vacancy.
Before recessing for the summer the Supreme Court handed down opinions this week dealing with three of the more controversial sections of the Taft-Hartley Act, but in only one case has the issue been finally disposed of. The Court declined to rule on the two others. Its action on the sections requiring financial reports and non-Communist affidavits came in connection with an appeal by the CIO National Maritime Union.
WASHINGTON, April 10 (U.P.)-- The United Nations Committee of Jurists reached general agreement today to recommend that The Hague be the seat of the new World Court, as it was of the old Permanent Court of International Justice.
WASHINGTON, April 10--In the United States Court of Customs and Patent Appeals today the following proceedings were had:
Authority gets S C Sup Ct action to restrain lower ct from halting purchase of 2 private utilities
There can be no doubt that ALEXANDER HOWAT and his five associates were in contempt of the Industrial Court of Kansas. In the face of an injunction they called a strike at two mines, and on the most trivial provocation. The only question was as to the age of a young miner, upon which depended the rate of his pay. In the absence of any other motive the...
The Supreme Court has reversed its position on an important point of law precisely at a time when the future of the court itself is the dominant political question before the country.
The Supreme Court of the United States is and ought to be the most deeply respected institution of the Federal Government. On its independence and integrity rest the precious rights of every citizen. Its members ought to be chosen for their proven judicial ability and temperament, and not merely for their political and social opinions or their amiable personalities.
In his address on Tuesday night before the Association of the Bar of the City of New York Mayor La Guardia informed his audience that the courts in New York City were costing nearly $4,000,000 a year more than the entire Federal court system.
Unless something radical is done strikes will continue; strikes disastrous to labor, industry and the general public.
Sup Ct sets aside county com meeting which refused to seat J J Broderick; invalidates G V Murphy and Mrs E M Bates election
Confronted with popular resentment against what opponents of the plan described as "packing the court," its defenders have sought to invoke precedent. Did not President LINCOLN and President GRANT adopt the same recourse in the Sixties?
In a large way and a way that is also just, it is inevitable that the discovery of huckstering judicial appointments in this city should have a powerful political effect. It must seriously damage Tammany. It must....
MILWAUKEE, March 13 -- Among the twenty individual ASCAP defendants who were present in court today and fined were Louis Bernstein, Otto A. Harbach, George W. Meyer, Gustav Schirmer, J.J. Bregman, Irving Caesar, Fred E. Ahlert, Saul Bornstein, Walter Fisher, Edgar Leslie, Jack Mills, Herman Starr, John O'Connor, Deems Taylor and Oscar Hammerstein 2d.
Mayor La Guardia made economy his principal argument when he appeared before a committee of the Constitutional Convention on Tuesday to support an amendment consolidating the courts in New York City. It was a good point.
ed on refusal of Surrogate Fowler to increase her allowance from estate of father, J. D. Carroll
A decision by the Circuit Court of Appeals in Chicago has overruled the National Labor Relations Board in the first case in which that agency ordered reinstatement of sit-down strikers. The case is an important one in the evolution of judicial opinion concerning the Wagner act and raises some interesting questions.
THE example set by the United States in establishing juvenile courts has been followed by all the principal  countries of Europe.
At its meeting last week the Chamber of Commerce had before it two suggestions regarding labor. One proposed the establishment of labor courts; the other the regulation of unions. There is...
The zone defense was the central theme at yesterday's luncheon of the Metropolitan Basketball Writers Association at the Hotel Lincoln. Ken Loeffler of Yale, one of the East's leading exponents of the zone, upheld the system, while Nat Holman of City College, representing the majority view, conducted the rebuttal.
The setback administered to Georgetown by Penn State the other night stamps the Nittany Lions as the prize spoilers of the major basketball circuit. The term is not meant in any derogatory sense but more as an explanation of a team that fails just a mite short of being a standout but has beaten some of the top-ranking quintets of the East.
In an address on "Justice and the Poor" before the annual meeting of the American Bar Association, Mr. HUGHES brought out a vital, undeniable, but too generally obscured or forgotten fact. Confidence in the...
The Children's Court of the City of New York began its separate and independent existence on July 1, 1915. After twelve or thirteen years of dependency or subordination as a branch of the Court of Special Sessions it...
In the last few years the American Bar Association and most of the State Bar Associations have advocated certain improvements in the...
Every once in a while an intracity game at Madison Square Garden ends in a lop-sided score, but not often. The double-header there the other night did not look like a good match. St. John's and N.Y.U., supposedly two of the stronger local quintets, were playing Manhattan and St. Francis, two of the lesser lights.
Young Man's Fancy, by H Thurschwell and A Golden: producer H Adrian gets summons for playing laughing recording over loudspeaker
For years the American bar has been striving for the reform of legal procedure. In England procedure is regulated by a committee of experts: eight judges and four members of societies of lawyers picked by the Lord Chancellor.
High Comm statement warns W Ger Govt to limit strength and affiliations of state forces; policy outlined; High Comr Francois-Poncet release of statement reptd surprise to High Comr McCloy
Western sources rept conscription of youths for USSR zone people's police; cite persecution for refusal; W Berlin Tag publishes alleged trade unions lr calling on Saxony-Anhalt local unions to aid drive; E Berlin press denies reptd Army plan
Western Berlin Abend repts Gen Chuikov orders for conversion of E Ger people's police to Army status following '50 conscription; says plan calls for complete arming of force of 360,000; repts police comdr K Fischer comment on expediting shift; other Western sources rept USSR Marshal Konev will head forces
USSR and E Ger officials set 2-yr compulsory service in 'people's police' for '50; more equipment to be allocated
Communist radio announces formation of security police force, Peiping, to operate inside and outside of country
E H H Caddy to probe killing of 3 Negroes by policemen if elected Kings DA
New order grants desk lts 48 hrs off after 4 duty tours; ends wandering lts (aviators) detail
Nebraska baseball squad members welcomed, NYC; dir Msgr Wegner gets NYC Police Dept Anchor Club plaque
Murphy claims Broderick was forced to retire from Police Dept because of assn with gangsters; Dist Atty Hogan backs statement; Broderick denial; sold life story to films
Polier sues opponent for Dem nomination D F Menagh for libel on charge that pamphlets distributed by Menagh describe Polier as Communist; Menagh aides distribute them in front of St Patrick's Cathedral; O Root, emerging from ch, scores pamphleteers; defends Polier
J J Broderick sues G V Murphy for libel for statement '47 retirement was forced because of gangster ties; Broderick and atty statements; Dist Atty Hogan and O'Dwyer silent; RKO continues Broderick film plan
5 USSR zone Ger police, fleeing to US Ger zone, say USSR recruits police for service in Greece
US police chiefs group fears that cut in US Mil Govt supervisory staff will bring back Gestapo methods; see Nazis infiltrating
W Berlin press repts 3,500 E Ger police sent to Yugoslav border; sees 12,000 more sent
Emergency Service Div to remain in dept under revised plan after 2-yr study stemming from Comr Quayle '47 proposal that service be absorbed by Fire Dept
On their own applications: PATROLMEN--Chester A. Patterson, Mounted Squadron 2, at $1,500 per annum. Appointed Dec. 30, 1910. John J. Buechler, Traffic Precinct P. at $1,500 per annum. Appointed Dec. 5, 1911.
Pensioned On his own application: PATROLMAN-Leo A. Walsh, 75th Precinct, at $1,500 per annum. Appointed Sept. 25, 1912. Transfers and Assignments LIEUTENANT-Emil C. Blumler, from 7th Division to 42d Precinct, assignment to desk duty continued.
Transfer and Assignments To take effect 8 A. M., Dec. 16: SERGEANT Walter F. O'Neill, from Traf. Pet. I to Traf. Pet. J. Temporary Assignments LIEUTENANT Harry C. Bilms, from 6th Precinct to 18th Division, for 16 days, from 4 P. M., Dec. 16.
TEN thousand respectful greetings, O Pride of Sciences,  and may the gods give him ten thousand talented sons to worship before the tablet when he is dead. And may he continue to remain the adviser of those who are in distress.
Heading the organization of eighteen thousand men who maintain the peace and protect the persons of the law-abiding citizens of the world's largest city requires a first-class man. Police Commissioner Wallander, who steps down at his own request on March 1, has met this test.
Transfers and Assignments To take effect 8 A. M., April 4: PATROLMEN-Charles S. Kuhn, 10th Precinct, assigned to clerical duty. John C. Bealler, from 83d Precinct to Police Academy, for duty in Technical Research Laboratory.
On Police Surgeon's certificate: To take effect 12 midnight, June 30: PATROLMAN--Peter Dove, Motorcycle Precinct 1, at $2,250 per annum. Appointed Jan. 5, 1921.
Pensioned On his own application-To take effect 12 Midnight, April 17: PATROLMAN-John F. Redmond, 101st Precinct, at $1,500 per annum. Appointed Feb. 5, 1912.
Pensioned On his own application: CAPTAIN-Edward Miller, 80th Precinct, at $2,500 per annum. Appointed Dec. 22, 1908. Transfers and Assignments PATROLMEN-Louis Sisapel, from 46th Precinct to office of the Second Deputy Police Commissioner, for duty in Legal Bureau. Edward A. Muller, 75th to 80th Precinct.
Detailed As Inspector The following captain of police is detailed to act as inspector, with the title while so acting of inspector of police, is transferred and assigned as indicated. Designation as acting inspector revoked:
To take effect 8 A. M., Aug. 8: LIEUTENANTS--Joseph H. Brink, from 11th Precinct to Telegraph Bureau, designated as acting captain. Assignment to desk duty discontinued. Emil C. Blumler, from 42d Precinct to 15th Division. assignment changed from desk duty to supervisor of patrol in uniform.
Transfers and Assignments LIEUTENANTS-Gerard R. Littlefield, from 77th Precinct to Police Academy. Assignment to desk duty discontinued. Arthur Wertheim, from Juvenile Aid Bureau to 2d Division. Assigned to desk duty.
Transfers and Assignments To take effect 8 A. M., Feb. 1: LIEUTENANTS-Martin J. Corley, from 30th Precinct to office of the Fourth Deputy Police Commissioner, Division of Licenses, assignment changed from desk duty to supervisor of inspectors of licensed hacks.
Transfer The transfer of Francis X. Timoney from  the position of Medical Examiner in the Department of Sanitation, at $4,200 per annum, to the position of Surgeon in the Police Department, at $5,000, per annum, is made effective March 1, and is assigned as indicated:
Pensioned On police surgeon's certificate: SERGEANT--Charles N. Overbeck, 71st Precinct, $1,750 per annum. Appointed Aug. 15, 1917. Transfers and Assignments PATROLMEN--Henry Yost Jr., Motor Cycle Precinct 1, assigned to duty as attendant.
Transfers and Assignments To take effect 8 A. M., Nov. 1: PATROLMEN-From precincts indicated to Grand Central Parkway Precinct, assigned to motorcycle duty.
Commissioner VALENTINE'S statement that commercialized gambling has been "practically eliminated" here is perhaps too sweeping. The police have, however, carried on a vigorous campaign against the slot-machine racketeers, policy men and wire-room operators with considerable success.
Transfer and Assignments To take effect 8 A. M., Dec. 1: PATROLMEN-James H. Shaughnessy, from 61st Precinct, to 18th Division, assigned as chauffeur. Reuben Liebowitz, 18th Division, 12th Detective District, designated as third grade detective, assignment as chauffeur discontinued.
Transfers PATROLMEN--From precincts indicated to sixtieth Precinct: Angelo J. Flore, 7; Rubin Stein 18; Hugh P. Ludden, 42; August E. H. Rose, 67; Thomas F. Heaney, 70; Edward T. Tobin, 71; joseph M. Gorton, 74; Edward F. Reilly, 75;
Transfers and Assignments To take effect 8 A. M., Jan. 6: ACTING CAPTAIN-William C. J. Strutzenberg Jr., from 19th Division, office of chief inspector, to 15th Division. Assignment changed from duty as supervisor of plain - clothes patrolmen to desk duty. Designation as acting captain at $4,500 per annum revoked.
Pensioned On their own applications. LIEUTENANTS-Richard Reynolds, Traffic Precinct B, at $2,000 per annum. Appointed June 30, 1909. Samuel W. Johnson, Grand Central Parkway Precinct, at $2,000 per annum. APpointed April 1, 1897.
Transfers and Assignments To take effect 8 A. M., Oct. 5: LIEUTENANTS-Irving M. Davies. Emerency Service Division. Assignment changed from desk duty to supervisor. Assignment to desk duty continued: George F. McGann, from command 9th divisionn to command 122d Precinct.
Temporary Assignments LIEUTENANTS -- Thomas E. O'Neill, from 43d Precinct to Brooklyn West and Richmond Headquarters, for 15 days, from 8 A.M., Jan. 1.
Pensioned ON POLICE SURGEON'S CERTIFICATU PATROLMAN Joseph J. Buckley, Shield 206, Traffic Precinct N, at $1,488 per annum. Appointed Feb. 26. 1918. Temporary Assignments PATROLMEN-James F. Reynolds from 103d Precinct to 18th Division, for 12 days. William C. Pfizenmeier, from 104th Precinct to office of the Police Commissioner, assigned to duty as chauffeur, for 14 days.
Transfers and Assignments To take effect 8 A. M., Oct. 16: PATROLMEN-Ambrose J. Cronin. 13th Precinct, assigned to duty as attendant. David H. Dick, from Traffic Precinct F to 108th Precinct. James A. Byers, from 18th Division, M. O. D. D. to Telegraph Bureau, assignment to duty in Bureau of Information discontinued.
Pensioned On police surgeon's certificate: SERGEANT-John Raftery, 7th Precinct, at $1,728 per annum. Appointed June 13, 1917.
Pensioned The following member of the force is retired from the police force and is placed on the roll of the Pension Fund: On his own application, to take effect 12 midnight, March 19: PATROLMAN--Joseph J. McKenna, 22d Precinct, at $1,500 per annum. Appointed Dec. 24, 1912.
The following are appointed to the position of patrolman on probation at $2,000 per annum, effective March 26: To Recruits Training School, Police Academy:
Transfers and Assignments To take effect 8 A. M., May 18: THIRD-GRADE DETECTIVE --Leonard W. Parkes, from 18th Division, 11th Detective District, to 77th Precinct, designation as third-grade detective revoked.
Pensloned On their own applications-To take effect 12 midnight. Sept. 15. PATROLMEN - Gustave Scheurenbrand, 90th Precinct, at $1.500 per annum. Appointed Sept. 16, 1913. Thomas Ccnnolly, Traffic Precinct F. at $1,500 per annum. Appointed Sept. 2, 1913.
Transfers and Assignments LIEUTENANTS-Patrick J. McGreevey, from 64th Precinct to 1st Division, assignment changed from desk duty to duty as supervisor of plain clothes patrolmen. Michael A. O'Neill, from 10th Division to 64th Precinct, assignment to desk duty continued.
Temporary Assignments For sixteen days, from 8 A. M., Aug. 16: LIEUTENANTS-Michael J. Flynn, from 14th Precinct to 3d Division, assigned to duty as Supervisor of Patrol in uniform. From commands indicated to 19th Division, Office of the Chief Inspector:
President Roosevelt has let it be known that he is not in favor of deputizing volunteers to help the authorities run down spies, conspirators, saboteurs, loose talkers and other unpleasant people.
On his own application: To take effect 12 midnight, Nov. 15: PATROLMAN--John F. Rogers, 70th Precinct, at $1,500 per annum. Appointed Oct. 8, 1912.
On their own applications: To take effect 12 midnight, Jan. 31. PATROLMEN Thomas O'Connor, 20th Precinct, at $1,500 per year. Appointed June 15, 1909. Louis FitzGerald, 32d Precinct, at $1,500 per year. Appointed Nov. 5. 1910. John Healy, Traffic Precinct C, at $1,500 per year. Appointed April 11, 1905.
Transfers and Assignments PATROLMEN-Edward J. Bidanset, from 14th Prec. to Borough Headquarters Squad, Manhattan, assigned to duty as chauffeur. From precincts indicated to Emergency Service Division:
To take effect 8 A. M., Feb. 25: LIEUTENANT Christopher G. Hodge, from 18th Division, 3d Detective District, to 15th Division, assigned to desk duty.
Transfers and Assignments LIEUTENANT - Patrick Crotty, from Bridge District to Traffic L, assignment to desk duty continued. PATROLMEN-From precincts indicated to 4th Division, assigned to duty in plain clothes:
On His Own Application-To take effect 12 midnight, June 23, 1938: PATROLMAN-Daniel F. Haggerty, 18th Division, M.O.D.D., at $1,500 per annum. Appointed April 14, 1905.
Transfers and Assignments To take effect S A. M., Aug. 16. PATROLMEN--From Borough Headquarters Squad, Brooklyn-Richmond, to 15th Division, assignment to duty in plain clothes continued:
Pensioned On their own applications. To take effect 12 midnight, July 13: PATROLMEN-Max E. Brudern, 24th Precinct, at $1,500 per annum. Appointed July 8, 1912. To take effect 12 midnight, July 14: Edward Whalen, 1st Precinct, at $1,500 per annum. Appointed Feb. 28, 1907.
Pensioned On his own application: PATROLMAN John Hummel, 92d Precinct at $1,500 per annum. Appointed Oct. 10 1911. Transfers and Assignments LIEUTENANTS-Charles F. Armstrong from 7th Division to 18th Division, assignment to desk duty discontinued. Jacob A. Licker, from 8th Division to 7th Division, assignment to desk duty continued.
Pensioned On his own application. To take effect 12 midnight. Feb. 28: PATROLMAN-George J. Ratzmann, 110th Precinct, at $1,500 per annum. Appointed Dec. 24, 1912.
Transfers and Assignments To take effect 8 A. M., Aug. 1: PATROLMEN--Arthur M. Ozab, from 43d Precinct to Quartermaster's Department, assigned to duty as chauffeur. Abraham I. Ebenfeld, from 77th Precinct to 75th Precinct.
SECOND GRADE DETECTIVE--Edward J. Kelly, from 18th Division, M. O.; D. D.. to 28th Precinct, designation as second grade detective revoked. THIRD GRADE DETECTIVE-Edward P. Fehling, from 18th Division. M. O. D. D., to 79th Precinct, designation as third grade detective revoked.
Transfers and Assignments To take effect 8 A. M., March 9: LIEUTENANT-Charles F. Armstrong, 18th Division, 7th Detective District, designated as Acting Captain.
Pensioned On his own application, to take effect 12 midnight, June 30: INSPECTOR--Arthur J. Dodd, 2d District Traffic, at $2,950 per annum. Appointed Dec. 1, 1896.
Transfers and Assignments LIEUTENANTS-To take effect 4 P. M., April 25: Patrick Sullivan, from 6th Precinct to 15th Division, assignment changed. from desk duty to supervisor of plain clothes patrolmen.
Pensioned On his own application: PATROLMAN--Howard E. Young, 18th Division, M. O. D. D., at $1,500 per annum. Appointed Feb. 27, 1912.
On his own application: PATROLMAN-Patrick Cullinan, 2d Precinct, at $1,500 per annum. Appointed April 11, 1905. Transfer PATROLMAN-James J. McArdle, from 8th Division to 52d Precinct, assignment to clerical duty discontinued.
Pensioned On his own application: Lieutenant-John L. Travers, Motorcycle Precinct 1. at $2,000 per annum. Appointed March 4, 1902. Temporary Assignments For 16 days, from 8 A. M., Aug. 16: LIEUTENANTS-From commands indlcated to Police Academy:
Pensioned On Police Surgeon's Certificate: PATROLMEN-William J. Langdon Jr., slat Precinct, at $2,250 per annum. Appointed June 30, 1921. Peter J. Connolly, 19th Division, Raided Premises Squad, at $2,250 per annum. Appointed Aug. 4, 1916.
Joseph H. Arnold, from 100th Precinct to 18th Division, for 15 days, from 8 A. M., Nov. 16. James A. Giattini. from 110th Precinct to 18th Division. duty in D. A. office, Queens County, for 1 day, from 4 P. M.. Nov. 10.
Pensioned On his own application: PATROLMAN George B. Wolsey, 50th Precinct, at $1,500 per annum. Appointed Aug. 7, 1912. Temporary Assignments PATROLMEN-Andrew P. Betso, from 7th Precinct to 18th Division, for five days. From precincts indicated to Police Academy, for nine days:
To take effect 8 A. M., July 22: PATROLMEN Patrick J. Daly, from office of the police commissioner to Emergency Service Division, assignment to duty in plain clothes discontinued. Stephen Sullivan, from 18th Precinct to 80th Precinct.
On their own applications-To take effect 12 noon, Aug. 16: PATROLMEN-Anthony J. Padrucco, 18th Precinct,. at $1,500 per annum. Appointed June 30, 1909. George B. Burling, 102d Precinct, at $1,500 per annum. Appointed Feb. 10, 1904.
On police surgeon's certificate-To take effect 12 midnight, Dec. 31: PATROLMAN-Gustave P. Primont Jr., 19th Division, office of Chief Inspector, at $1,500 per annum. Appointed Dec. 14, 1911. Temporary Assignments PATROLMEN-From precincts indicated to 18th Division, for 30 days, from 8 A. M., Dec. 28:
On their own applications, to take effect 12 midnight, Nov. 15: PATROLMEN-Thomas J. Doyle, 18th Division, M. O. D. D., at $1,500 per annum. Appointed Sept. 1, 1904. Wilbur J. Kennedy, 18th Division, 12th IY. D., at $1,500 per annum. Appointed April 3, 1909.
Assignments To take effect 8 A. M.. Dec. 12. PATROLMAN-Daniel J. Kelleher, 18th Division, M. O. D. D., designated as third grade detective. Assignment to clerical duty in Bureau of Correspondence and Records discontinued. Temporary Assignments LIEUTENANTS--From commands indicated to 19th Division, office of the chief inspector, for 16 days, from 8 A. M., Dec. 16:
PATROLMEN--John M. Parchen, from 40th Precinct to Borough Headquarters Squad Manhattan, for duty with Midtown Squad. for duty with Midtown Squad.
On their own applications: PATROLMEN--Morris M. Melzak, 7th Precinct, at $1,500 per annum. Appointed May 23, 1910. Alexander J. Schmidt, 52d Precinct, at $1,500 per annum. Appointed Sept. 22, 1905. August J. Ranft, 92d Precinct, at $1,500 per annum Appointed April 6, 1912.
Transfer To take effect 8 A. M., May 1: PATROLMAN-Bernard J. Halpin, from 7th Precinct to Telegraph Bureau. Temporary Assignments SERGEANT--Francis T. Hickey, from 48th Precinct to 18th Division, duty in D. A. office, Bronx, for 1 day, from 4 P. M. April 19.
There is a certain kind of meddling of politicians with the police which is not precisely corrupt but is demoralizing. It is the sort of thing to which the former Commissioner of Police, Colonel ARTHUR WOODS, refers in his little book, "Policeman and Public."
ACTING CAPTAINS-Christian L. Zimmer, from Telegraph Bureau to 3d Division, assigned to duty as supervisor of plain clothes patrolmen. Designation as acting captain revoked.
Transfers and Assignments To take effect 8 A. M., Nov. 1: THIRD GRADE DETECTIVE--William F. Walsh, from 18th Division, 10th Detective District, to 77th Precinct. Designation as Third Grade Detective revoked. PATROLMAN--Harry Taylor, from 110th Precinct to 18th Division, designated as Third Grade Detective.
Comr Mulrooney's rept for 1932 shows gambling, except policy playing, at minimum because of lack of funds
Transfers and Asalgnments LIEUTENANT-Frederlck G. Norman, 5th Division, assignment changed from supof visor of plainclothes patrolmen to.clerioal duty.
Transfers and Assignments To take effect 8 A. M., Oct. 10: PATROLMEN--Alfred Barbuto, from 60th Precinct to 64th Precinct; Aristide U. E. Giordano, from 64th Precinct to 60th Precinct. Temporary Assignments PATROLMAN--James J. Brady, from 18th Precinct to Quartermaster's Department, assigned to clerical duty for 16 days, from 8 A. M., Oct. 16.
Transfer and Assignment SERGEANT-John Casey, from Emergency Service Squad 5 to 22d Pct. Temporary Assignments PATROLMEN-Daniel J. Hannon, from 14th Pct. to 18th Division, duty in D. A. Office. N. Y. County. for 1 day.
On His Own Application PATROLMAN-Matthew J. Cullen, 106th Precinct, at $1,500 per annum. Appointed Dec. 27, 1911.
Commissioner WHALEN has been reorganizing the police force on the general plan of devolving responsibility. Instead of centralized control he would have each police captain supreme in his precinct and held rigidly accountable for conditions there.
Temporary Assignments LIEUTENANT-Charles R. Michie, from 5th Division to Emergency Service Division, assignment to desk duty continued, for 15 days, from 8 A. M.. Nov. 1.
On his own application: To take effect 12 midnight, Oct. 1: PATROLMAN - Andrew Kerrigan, 70th Precinct, at $1,500 per annum. Appointed July 3, 1913.
Temporary Assignments SERGEANTS Thomas A. Corcoran from 14th Precinct to 3d Division, assigned as Supervisor of Plain Clothes Patrolmen, for 15 days, from 8 A.M. Jan. 1: Thomas A. Mooney from 30th Precinct to Motor Transport Maintenance Division, assigned to clerical duty for 15 days, from 8 A. M. Jan. 1.
Leaves Without Pay PATROLMEN Harry Goldman, 13 Precinct, for 1 day from 8 A. M., Sept. 6. Frank R. Siekmann. 19 Precinct, for 3 days, from 12:01 A. M.. Sept. 4. Henry Levy, 25 Precinct, for 1 day, from 8 A. M., Sept. 6. John J. O'Connor, 25 Precinct, for 1 day, from 4 P. M., Sept. 4.
Leaves Without Pay PATROLMEN-Philip Stein, 34th Precinct, 1 day, from 8 A. M., Oct. 5; Louis Alderstein, 40th Precinct, 3 days, from 4 P. M.,, Oct. 25; Louis Alderstein, 40th Precinct, 1 day, from 8 A. M., Oct. 5; Paul Brody, 41st Precinct, 2 days, from 4 P. M., Sept. 26; Kain Herskovitz, 42d Precinct, 2 days, from 8 A. M., Sent. 26: Nathaniel Greenspan.
Pensioned On his own application: To take effect 12 midnight, Dec. 3: PATROLMAN-Joseph A. Beddy, 114th Precinct, at $1,500 per annum. Appointed Sept. 20, 1905. Temporary Assignments SERGEANT-James A. Giattini, from 110th Precinct to 18th Division, duty in D. A. Office, Queens County, for one day. from 4 P. M., Nov. 30.
On police surgeon's certificate: PATROLMAN-William B. O'Connor, 69th Precinct, at $1,500 per annum. Appointed June 10, 1915. PATROLMEN-Thomas F. McGivney, 64th Precinct, at $1,260 per annum. Appointed Jan. 10, 1921. Charles J. McGee, 79th Precinct, at $840 per annum. Appointed Sept. 20, 1926.
On his own application: PATROLMAN-Otto P. Heubner, Traffic Precinct B. at $1,500 per annum. Appointed March 12, 1912. Transfers and Assignments PATROLMEN-George B. Regan, from 34th Precinct to 18th Division, assigned to duty as chauffeur. Lawrence F. Kraemer, 5th Precinct to Traffic B.
Pensioned On his own application, to take effect 12 midnight. Aug. 17. PATROLMAN--William J. Tjarks, 75th Pct., at $1,500 per annum. Appointed Jan. 17, 1908.
Temporary Assignments SERGEANT--James A. Giattini, from 110th Precinct to 18th Division, duty in D. A. office, Queens, for 1 day, from 4 P. M. Sept. 21. PATROLMEN--William T. Little, from 77th Precinct to 18th Division, duty in D. A. office, Kings, for 1 day, from 4 P. M. Sept. 16.
Temporary Assignments PATROLMEN--Charles Thomas, 32d Precinct. assigned to duty in plain clothes in precinct for 16 days, from 8 A. M., Aug. 16. Anthony F. Becker, from Traffic Precinct P to 19th Division, duty in Raided Premises Squad for 15 days, from 8 A. M., Aug. 17.
On their own applications, to take effect 12 midnight. April 15: PATROLMEN-Charles Zeman, 71st Precinct. at $1,500 per annum. Appointed April 7, 1913. James J. Brenick, 18th Division. Manhattan Borough Detectives at $1.500 per annum. Appointed Dec. 30, 1902.
LIEUTENANT James B. Leggett, from 104th Precinct to 18th Division, duty in D. A. Office, Queens, for 5 days, from 8 A. M., April 1. SERGEANTS-Francis Miele, from 32d Precinct to 18th Division, duty in D. A. office, Bronx, for 1 day, from 4 P. M., April 4.
Joseph F. Dunn, from 78th Precinct, to Borough Headquarters Squad, Brooklyn and Richmond. assigned to duty in Felony Court, Brooklyn, for 15 days, from 8 A. M., June 16. James P. Diamond, from 81st Precinct to 18th Division, for 5 days, from 8 A. M., June 13.
Transfer PATROLMAN-Nathan Chezar, from 40th Precinct to 3d Division, assigned to duty in plain clothes. Temporary Assignments LIEUTENANTS--John F. McNamara, Traffic P, assigned in command, for 47 days, from 8 A. M., July 25, 1937, during absence of captain on vacation and with leave.
Pensioned On his own application: LIEUTENANT--Henry E. Gerken. 47th Precinct, at $2,000 per annum. Appointed Sept. 27, 1905. Transfers and Assignments LIEUTENANT-Martin T. Donelon, from 8th Division to 47th. Precinct, assignment to desk duty continued.
Pensioned On his own application; to take effect 12 midnight, July 10: PATROLMAN--John J. O'Neill. Mounted Squadron 2, at $1,500 per annum. Appointed Oct. 28. 1912. Appointed Probationary Patrolmen At $2,000 per annum, effective July 8:
Transfers and Assignments To take effect 8 A. M., May 5: LIEUTENANTS-Robert E. Quinn, from 84th Precinct to 4th Division, assignment changed from desk duty to supervisor of plain clothes patrolmen. Samuel A. Pinnell, from 87th Precinct to Motorcycle Precinct 2, assignment to desk duty continued.
Pensioned On his own application, to take effect 12 midnight, Sept. 27: INSPECTOR--George F. Ferre, 9th Division, at $2,950 per annum. Appointed Dec. 30, 1902. Transfers and Assignments To take effect 8 A. M.. Oct. 1:...
Pensioned On their own applications: PATROLMEN-Daniel Donoghue, 63d Precinct, at $1,500 per annum. Appointed Feb. 2, 1907. Michael C. Erb, 18th Division, M. O. D. D., at $1,500 per annum. Appointed Sept. 24, 1910.
On police surgeon's certificate, to take effect 12 midnight, March 6. PATROLMAN-William Stranch, 111th Precinct, at $1,200 per annum. Appointed March 6, 1922. Temporary Assignments PATROLMEN-Michael J. Smith, from 42d Precinct to 18th Division, duty in D. A.
Transfer To take effect 8 A. M., April 22. PATROLMAN James J. Falihee, from 14th Precinct to Police Academy, for duty in Technical Research Laboratory.
Order of Retirement SURGEON-Patrick J. York, 16th Medical District, on an annual pension of $2,650. LIEUTENANT-Michael J. Tormey, 87th Precinct, on an annual pension of $2,000. LIEUTENANT-John J. Ward, 18th Drvi. sion. M. 0. D., Brooklyn, on an annual pension of $2,000.
Transfers and Assignments To take effect 8 A. M., Oct. 18: LIEUTENANTS--Harry P. McCann, from 37th Precinct to 18th Division, assignment to desk duty discontinued. Charles G. Tiersch, from 12th Division to 67th Precinct, assignment to desk duty continued .
Order of Retirement Under provisions of Subdivision 3 of Seation 354 of the Greater New York Charter as amended by Local Law 43 of 1936, and on police surgeon's certificate: PATROLMEN-Michael Cullinane, 100th Precinct, at $2,250 per annum; appointed July 3, 1928; John L. Toomey, Grand Central Parkway Precinct, at $2,250 per annum; appointed March 6. 1925.
On his own application. To take effect 12 midnight, June 6: PATROLMAN-Owen F. Devery, 43d Precinct, at $1,500 per annum. Appointed Oct. 9, 1911.
PATROLMEN--John W. Mooney, Traffic Precinct B. at $1,500 per annum. Appointed April 24, 1906. Frederick Ganss, office of the Property Clerk, at $1,500 per annum. Appointed Feb. 16, 1909.
Pensioned On His Own Application--To take effect 12 midnight. March 25: SERGEANT--Johnston Humphries, 122d Precinct, at $1,750 per annum. Appointed Aug. 12, 1903.
Pensioned On his own application, to take effect 12 midnight. Dec. 31: PATROLMAN-Jeremah C. Sullivan, 43d Precinct, at $1,500 per annum. Appointed Nov. 5, 1910. Temporary Assignments For 15 days, from 8 A. M., Jan. 1: LIEUTENANTS-Charles R. Michie, from 5th Division to Emergency Service Division, assignment to desk duty continued.
Pensioned On his own application, to take effect 12 midnight, Feb. 10: PATROLMAN George A. Smith, Traffic Precinct D, at $1,500 per annum. Appointed Oct. 8, 1912. Transfers and Assignments To take effect 8 A. M., Feb. 8:
Pensioned On his own application: PATROLMAN--John E. Prince, 103d Precinct, at $1,500 per annum. Appointed May 29, 1911. Transfers and Assignments SERGEANT---John J. Burns, from 18th Precinct to 5th Division, assigned to duty as supervisor of plain clothes patrolmen.
Assignments To take effect 8 A. M., Dec. 14. LIEUTENANT William G. Murray, Ofrice of the Fifth Deputy Commissioner, Designated as Acting Captain. Temporary Assignments For sixteen days, from 8 A. M., Dec. 16. LIEUTENANT Charles R. Michie, from 5th Division to Emergency Service Division, assignment to desk duty continued. From commands indicated to Juvenile Aid Bureau:
Temporary Assignments PATROLMEN Augustin Bravo, from 34th Precinct to 18th Division, duty in District Attorney's office. New York County, for 5 days, from 4 P.M. June 2.
Temporary Assignments For 13 days, from 8 A. M., Feb. 16: LIEUTENANTS--Frederick P. Bayer, from 34th Precinct to 5th Division, assigned to duty as supervisor of patrol in uniform. Frank Fristensky Jr., from 109th Precinct to Borough Headquarters Squad, Queens, assigned to duty in Traffic Court.
Pensioned On his own application: SERGEANT-- Adolph E. Jaworsky, 48th Precinct, at $1,750 per annum. Appointed Oct. 9, 1911.
Pensioned ON HIS OWN APPLICATION-To take effect 12 midnight, July 31: SERGEANT-Charles Braun. 111th Precinct, at $1,750 per annum. Appointed Feb. 10, 1913. Temporary Assignments
No Police Commissioner has uttered firmer words or displayed more confidence in himself than Mr. WHALEN. Yet the erratic violence of this official acts is giving him a reputation for instability.
Pensioned On their own applications. To take effect 12 midnight, May 23: PATROLMEN--John E. Cunningham. 18th Division, M.O.D.D., at $1,500 per annum. Appointed May 4, 1908. To take effect 12 midnight, May 31: Henry Halblaub, Traffic Precinct A, at $1,500 per annum. Appointed Oct. 2, 1905.
On their own application: SERGEANT--John Burberg, 120th Precinct, at $1,750 per annum. Appointed May 17, 1902. PATROLMEN--Thomas Berry, 19th Precinct, at $1,500 per annum. Appointed Aug. 23, 1911. Leo Gisselbrecht, 18th Division, M. O. D. D., at $1,500 per annum. Appointed Oct. 18, 1906.
On their own application. To take effect 12 midnight, Oct. 22: PATROLMEN-Charles C. Michael, 5th Precinct, at $1,500 per annum. Appointed Aug. 25, 1913. To take effect 12 midnight, Oct. 31: Felix Martin, Traffic Precinct L, at $1,500 per annum. Appointed April 13, 1905.
On police surgeon's certificate--To take effect 12 midnight Oct. 19. DEPUTY CHIEF INSPECTOR--Edward A. Bracken, 19th Division, office of chief inspector, at $3,150 per annum. Appointed Sept. 22, 1905.
Pensioned On his own application: PATROLMAN-John McTernan, 18th Division. 11th Detective District, at $1,500 per annum. Appointed Aug. 7, 1902.
Pensioned ON POLICE SURGEON'S CERTIFICATE: To take effect 12 Noon, July 16: PATROLMAN-Louis Gommenginger, 103d Precinct, at $1,032 per annum. Appointed Dec. 2, 1924. Temporary Assignments SERGEANT-Charles T. Fischer, from 106th Precinct to 18th Division, duty in District Attorney's office, Queens County, for 1 day, from 4 P. M., July 13.
Pensioned On his own application: SERGEANT--John H. Feeley, 101st Precinct, at $1,750 per annum. Appointed Aug. 12, 1903. Temporary Assignments PATROLMEN--Eugene J. Leonard, from 10th Precinct to 18th Division, duty in District Attorney's office, New York County, for 6 days.
Transfer To take effect 8 A. M., April 19: LIEUTENANT Michael E. J. Ledden, from 16th Division to 109th Precinct, aasignment to desk duty continued. Temporary Assigments PATROLMEN
LIEUTENANT Albert Kolson, 100th Prea cinct, at $2,000 per annum. Appointed Feb, 28, 1907. Transfers and Assignments LIEUTENANT John J. Murphy, from 15th Division to 100th Precinct, assignment to desk duty continued.
Pensioned ON HIS OWN APPLICATION PATROLMAN James J. Trainor, 46th Precinct, at $1,500 per annum. Appointed March 5, 1906. Temporary Assignments PATROLMEN-William C. Wood, from 19th Precinct to 18th Division, duty in D. A. office, N. Y. County, for 1 day.
To take effect 12 noon, Dec. 16, on his own application: PATROLMAN-Christian G. Woehrle, 18th Division, 6th Detective District, at 1,500 per annum, Appointed Dec. 6, 1913.
Pensioned On his own application, to take effect 12 midnight, May 6: LIEUTENANT--Thomas J. Hynes, 32d Precinct, at $2,000 per annum. Appointed May 6, 1913. Temporary Assignments PATROLMEN--Francis A. A. Juchter, from 14th Precinct to 73d Precinct, from 8 A. M., May 9.
Temporary Assignments PATROLMEN-From precincts indicated to 18th Division, duty in D. A. office, Kings County, for 1 day: V. F. Parry .... 79L. Colantuono .. 88 From 120th Precinct to 18th Division. duty in D. A. office, Richmond County, for 2 days;
Pensioned ON HIS OWN APPLICATION. To take effect 12 midnight, April 10: PATROLMAN-Alfred G. Rummage, 120th Precinct, at $1,500 per annum. Appointed April 6, 1912. Transfers and Assignments To take effect 8 A. M., April 12: PATROLMEN-Harry Rosenstock, from Motorcycle Precinct 1 to 8th Precinct, assignment to motorcycle duty discontinued.
Pensioned On police surgeon's certificate: To take effect 12 midnight, July 12: PATROLMAN--John Bowmen, 41st Precinct, at $1,080 per annum. Appointed March 26, 1924.
Appointed Patrolmen on Probation The following are appointed patrolmen on probation in this department at $2,000 per annum, effective March 1:
Transfers and Asslgnments PATROLMEN-James T. Mackay, front Mounted Squadron 2 to 79th Precinct. a.i signment to mounted duty discontinued. From precincts indicated to 18th Division, designated as third grade detectives: Thomas B. Clarke 17 J. F. Finnerty... 18. Temporary Assignment PATROLMAN-Daniel Linker, from 30th Precinct to 3d Division, assigned to duty th plain clothes, for 15 days.
PATROLMEN--James P. McKeogh, from 13th Precinct to 18th Division, for 10 days, from 4 P. M., Aug. 1. William G. Weber 74th Precinct, assigned to tours, 8 A. M. to 4 P. M. and 4 P. M. to 12 midnight, for 30 days, from 8 A. M.. Aug. 3.
On his own application: PATROLMAN-Harry C. Ernst, 80th Precinct, at $1,500 per annum. Appointed Jan. 17, 1908. Temporary Assignments PATROLMEN-John M. O'Shaughnessy, from 25th Precinct to 19th Division, office of the Chief Inspector, for 5 days.
Pensioned On their own applications: PATROLMEN To take effect 12 midnight, Feb. 7: Patrick T. Powers, Traffic Precinct F,. at $1,500 per annum. Appointed June 3, 1908. To take effect 12 midnight, Feb. 8:
On his own application: PATROLMAN Charles J. Olson, 70th Precinct, at $1,500 per annum. Appointed Oct 28, 1912. Transfers and Assignments LIEUTENANT John J. P. Quinn, from 3d Division to 10th Precinct, assignment to desk duty continued. PATROLMAN James J. McArdle, from 52d Precinct to 8th Division, assigned to duty as chauffeur.
Assignment To take effect 8 A. M., Nov. 1: LIEUTENANT -- Josepn S. Christie. Emergency Service Division. Assignment changed from desk duty to supervisor. Temporary Assignments PATROLMEN-Joseph F. Quirk from 83d Precinct to office of the Chief Clerk, assigned to clerical duty, for 5 days, from 8 A. M. Nov. 1.
On police surgeon's certificate: PATROLMAN-George W. Brewster, 19th Division, Raided Premises Squad. at $2,250 per annum. Appointed Aug. 12, 1903. On his own application: PATROLMAN-John G. Beyer, 105th Precinct. at $1,500 per annum. Appointed July 25, 1910.
Pensioned On their own applications, to take effect 12 midnight Aug. 26: PATROLMEN John H. Stemmerman, 81st Precinct, at $1,500 per annum. Appointed Aug. 27, 1913.
To take effect 8 A. M., May 17: LIEUTENANT --Alexander P. Lilley, 6th Division, assignment changed from desk duty to supervisor of patrol in uniform. PATROLMEN James Bute, from 63d Precinct to Harbor Precinct. Robert E. Martin, from 76th Precinct to Police Academy, for duty In Technical Research Laboratory. Frank A. Texter, from Harbor Precinct to 75th Precinct.
ON HIS OWN APPLICATION PATROLMAN-Hugh J. Smith, Shield No. 3629, 112th Precinct, at $1,500 per annum. Appointed April 2, 1895. Assignments PATROLMEN-Harbor Precinct, designated as Acting Sergeants:
Order of Retirement and Dismissal To take effect 12 midnight, Nov 5: PATROLMAN-Frank J. Smith, 28th Precinct, at $2,250 per annum. Appointed Nov. 21, 1918. Pensioned On police surgeon's certificate. To take effect 12 midnight. Nov. 5: PATROLMAN-John F. Healy, 61st Precinct. at $1,368 per annum. Appointed Jan. 14, 1920.
Transfers and Assignments To take effect 8 A.'M. June 25: PATROLMEN-James A. Byers, from 62d Precinct to 18th Division, duty in Bureau of Information. Horace M. S. Matheson, from office of the property clerk to 18th Division, designated as third-grade detective.
Temporary Assignments SERGEANT--Louis Ramirez. from 61st Precinct to 18th Division, duty In D. A. office, Kings County, for 1 day, from 4 P. M., Jan. 27. PATROLMEN--James F. Sullivan, from 30th Precinct to 18th Division, duty in D. A. office, N. Y. County, for 2 days, from 8 A. M., Jan. 27.
Transfers and Assignments PATROLMEN-Frank J. Scheiner. 88th to Traffic C; Alfred Marks, Traffic C to 88th. Temporary Assignments LIEUTENANT-Christian L. Zimmer, from 5th Precinct to Telegraph Bureau, designated as acting captain, for 26 days, from 8 A. M., Nov. 24, during the absence of acting captain on vacation.
Transfers and Assignment PATROLMEN--From precinots indicated to office of the Second Deputy Police Commissioner, Division of Licenses, assignment to duty as inspectors of licensed hacks continued:
ON THEIR OWN APPLICATIONS PATROLMEN-Andrew Bornkessel, 40th Precinct, at $1,500 per annum. Appointed July 6, 1912. Alfred J. Huestis, 52d Precinct, at $1,500 per annum. Appointed March 12, 1910.
Not all the offsets that occur to the mind can lessen the first effect created by the peculiarly atrocious murder of which a member of the police force now stands accused. The detective work which made possible an indictment within forty-eight hours after the crime might well be called brilliant.
On his own application: PATROLMAN-Joseph F. Kirsch, 66th Precinct, at $1,500 per annum. Appointed Dec. 1, 1896. Temporary Assignments Patrolmen-Daniel J. Hannon, from 14th Precinct to 18th Division, duty in D. A. Office, N. Y. County, for 5 days. William Friedman, from 15th Precinct to 18th Division, for 13 days.
Transfers and Assignments To take effect 8 A. M., Nov. 4: PATROLMEN-John J. Dolan, from Borough Headquarters Squad, Manhattan, to 109th Precinct, assignment to duty with Midtown Squad, discontinued. John Curry, from 23d Precinct to Traffic D.
Transfers and Assignments PATROLMEN-Andrew E. Langert, from 4th Division to 112th Precinct, assignment to duty in plain clothes discontinued. Edwin T. O'Keefe, from 4th Division to 80th Precinct, assignment to duty in plain clothes discontinued. Additional compensation of $240 ($220) per annum revoked.
Transfers and Assignments LIEUTENANTS--Howard C. O'Leary, from 3d Division to 18th division, assignment to desk duty discontinued.
ON HIS OWN APPLICATION-To take effect 12 midnight, June 21: PATROLMAN-Roy J. Dickson. Appointed Oct. 8, 1912. Transfers and Assignments To take effect 8 A. M., June 23: PATROLMEN-John E. Brandle, from 73d Precinct to 18th Division, assigned to duty as chauffeur: Lawrence H. Flair,
Transfers and Assignments PATROLMEN--Leo A. Greene, from 43d Precinct to 20th Precinct: Edward T. Gro gan, from 62d Precinct to Traffic N James E. King, from 105th Precinct to 18th Division, assigned to duty as Chauf feur; Edward L. Wardell, from Motorcycli Precinct 1 to 70th Precinct, assignment to clerical duty discontinued; William H Lindsey, from 88th Precinct to 18th Divi sion, designated as Third Grade Detective.
comment on pub apathy; Chancellor Adenauer urged to lessen personal rule and to cultivate natl interest in problems
Hesse counties warned that they will be barred from aid for failure to cooperate with US pol program
Sen Connally urges all factions support bipartisanship; backs Vandenberg; Sen Malone attacks concept and Vandenberg right to s for Repubs
Min Rosen proposes charter for ZOA granting exec powers in specific activities; conflict with Govt on authority revd
Western Allies approve Govt amnesty law for pol prisoners; those to be affected not specifically defined
Israel rejects UN Trusteeship Council request to remove Govt offices, lr to council pres R Garreau; questions council right to make request; Min Eban defines stand; holds UN plan unworkable
WASHINGTON, Dec. 29 -- Any who still believe that the laissez faire doctrine of the last century is feasible or even desirable as the base of American political economy in this century will turn impatiently and perhaps angrily away from the fourth annual report to the President by the Council of Economic Advisers, now bereft of its chairman, Dr. Nourse.
Sen Knowland urges US to back Nationalists; backs advisory mil comm; State Dept comments; Sen Taft backs using US Navy to prevent Formosa fall
$10-million fine ordered against Bemberg heirs in tax evasion case linked to family members's alleged slurs on Peron and wife
Russians move personnel out of Karlshorst area; Ger owners, returning, rept removal of fixtures and furniture
former Nazis linked to reptd Austria-Bavaria unity plan; clandestine distribution of Nazi pamphlets in western cities reptd
US State Dept notifies relatives 2 US Navy men are alive and well although held by Communists, near Tsingtao
K Dohrn warns against confusing nazim with nationalism in Bavaria; sees recent accounts of dangers misleading, lr
Govt bans Salta Intransigente (newspaper) for opposition to Peron's election; moves against Jockey Club and other orgns cited
The choice of K. C. Wu, former Mayor of Shanghai, to be the Governor of Formosa is an indication that the Nationalist Government of China really wishes to do the right thing in Formosa and for the Formosans. Mr. Wu is a good administrator, liberal in his outlook, thoroughly "Western in his ideas of democracy.
official Communist organ, Berlin, repts Grotewohl visited by W Ger labor leader; 1st E Ger press mention of him since W Berlin press rumors of his death
Our Government's conclusion of a civil air pact with Yugoslavia is another step toward the Yugoslav re-entry into the normal comity of nations. The acts and attitudes through which Tito divorced himself from such association were of his own making. The changes that are taking place in those acts and attitudes are not entirely so.
rejects US protest; says Vogeler and Sanders confess to spying, sabotage and criminal activities; 12 Hungarians held as accomplices; IT&T vp L Jacob 2d scoffs at charges; GB scores Govt stand
pact signed giving US rights in and over Yugoslavia in exch for same rights to Yugoslavia in US zones of Austria and Ger; US seen granting rights to Pan Amer; US aide F Deak credited with pact
BUDAPEST, Hungary, Dec. 23 (AP) -- Hungary's Roman Catholic Bishops today granted their priests permission to swear an oath of loyalty to the "Hungarian people's republic, its people and Constitution."
GB suspends trade parleys in reprisal for Hungary refusal to give Brit consul access to prisoner; GB-Hungary trade figures, Jan-Oct
High Comr McCloy revs High Comm activities and conditions in Ger since its inception; optimistic on recovery
US officials, Frankfort, see USSR and E Ger Govt attempt to force Western Allied and W Ger Govt recognition of E Ger Govt
Sen Taft says US is rich enough to end extreme poverty; holds Fed aid should not equal self-earned standard
WARSAW, Dec. 20 -- A German mining engineer pleaded guilty today before the Wroclaw Military Court to providing an alleged French intelligence network with information and misinformation.
Govt rejects US protest on linking of Min Heath; Sofia press pub Heath denial of talks with Kostov
'Young Marshal' Chang Hsueh-liang reptdly executed, Formosa, on orders from Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek; role in kidnaping of Chiang, '36, recalled
The Communist rulers of Bulgaria announce that they have rolled up no less than 97.66 per cent of the total vote cast in Sunday's election in favor of their so-called Fatherland Front, which is now the Russian Front. What the actual figures are is, of course, impossible to ascertain in a country whose Government uses fraud and terror as weapons of the class struggle and the cold war.
For years the elevators in the plant of the Buenos Aires newspaper, Nacion, have been working satisfactorily. But because their gates lack safety plaques to prevent their being opened from the outside by anyone willing to push his fingers through the grill and fiddle with the electric switch, all of the elevators in the Nacion building have been shut down.
Admr Ewing on Western Europeans concern over US; says US pub gen welfare can be guarantee of world peace
Peron seen portraying self as natl ideological symbol above pol; drive to form 'loyal opposition' and Senora Peron's statements cited
Pro-Tito Communists form Independent Workers party, Berlin; K-H Scholz elected chmn; opposes both East and West
Natl Assembly elections; vote for Fatherland Front seen almost unanimous with no opposition candidates on ballot; voting procedure noted
N Khrushchev named Communist party Central Com sec and Moscow Regional Com 1st sec, replacing G M Popov
Nationalists reptd moving toward Kunming; air raids reptd, Suchow, Nanking and Ningpo areas; early Communist offensive against Hainan seen; conditions seen favorable to conquest
Kostov hanged; allegedly confessed in final mercy plea; Premier Kolarov assails Anglo-Amer and Yugoslav 'Imperialists'; Belgrade sources see party split by trial; cite suicide of pub prosecutor Parmatarov
P Robeson, H Fast, Civil Rights Cong and 25 others sue Peekskill, Westchester and NYS officials and veterans orgns for $2,020,000 for personal injury, property damage and deprivation of civil rights; O J Rogge, Robeson and Cong spokesman comment; Amer Civil Liberties Union serves Cortlandt officials with summons
Nationalists reptdly attack and defeat defecting troops, near Chengtu and Sichang; agreement reptdly reached on inc of 10,000 Nationalist troops into Viet Nam forces, French Indo-China; Communists rept finding bodies of Gen Yang Hu-cheng and his son, Chungking; rept over 500 pol prisoners killed along with Yang just before Chungking fall; Civil Air Transport flies planes to Formosa to avert desertions to Communists
Kostov gets death sentence; 10 others get jail terms, fines, loss of civil rights and property; Kostov reptd calm; por
US produces lr from ex-Foreign Min Visoianu backing charge that USSR Min Vishinsky gave ex-King Michael ultimatum to dismiss '45 Govt
radical nationalism revival seen biggest problem for Allies and W Ger Govt; movements in North and in Bavaria contrasted
Traicho Kostov, Bulgaria's greatest Communist leader after the late Georgi Dimitrov, is being hanged because he "kept secret from the Soviet delegation the prices of some Bulgarian products." That was not the reason given at the trial which has just ended, where he alone refused to recant and was sentenced to death while the others received prison sentences, but it must be the real reason because nothing else makes the slightest sense.
M Pate announces ICEF suspends further food shipments pending exec bd decision; ICEF continues to ship streptomycin
Brit link Ruhr indus owners, back in power, to Rightist parties; all parties vie for Ruhr support
Socialists and Christian Dems demand Deputy Hedler ouster from Bundestag for defending Nazis; Socialists seek trial
Kostov makes final denial of charges; Stefanov and others charge he implicated them in plot; defense counsels apologize; Brit Foreign Office says B Watson was dead at time of alleged contacts with defendants
Titoist split in Communist party seen indicated by USSR expulsion of Austo-Yugoslav Soc from Vienna sector; failure of group to adopt anti-Tito resolution as ordered by Communist party reptd reason for move
J F Dulles urges US take offensive with $100-million propaganda drive, s, NYC; says West must oppose USSR gains
WASHINGTON, Dec. 12 -- The State Department delivered a sharp dressing down to the ranking Bulgarian envoy today for the continued attacks and "indignities" to which Donald R. Heath, United States Minister in Sofia, was being subjected.
Cong votes, 95-1, to expel opposition Deputy Cattaneo for alleged disrespect; Peronista press outlines place and function of pol opposition
Conf on China, Asilomar, Calif; Sen Knowland backs US aid to Nationalists; former Consul Gen J M Cabot opposes aid to reactionary regime just because it is anti-Communist; Repr Douglas and R D Lapham s
Leading bankers under Nazis reptd back as dirs of decentralized banks created by Allied mil govts, W Ger; reptdly by-pass anti-monopoly laws
defendants make further charges that Tito plotted to gain control of Pirin region; Borba comment casts doubt on motive behind Dimitrov retirement to Moscow
flight foils plot by Lu to capture him; Lu reptdly proclaims turn-over to Communists; Nationalist planes circle Kunming demanding release of Gen Chang Chun and 3 other gens sent in to persuade Lu to remain loyal to Nationalists
zonal conditions revd; Grotewohl alleged illness and Ulbricht assumption of duties seen part of USSR purge to strengthen zone as Communist stronghold prior to troops withdrawal; W Berlin view of situation cited; cartoons
Communist party Central Com meets, Paris; opens drive against Titoism; urges gifts for Stalin's 70th birthday
Yunnan apparently turns against Nationalists and supports Communists; Nationalists hope revolt can be localized; Chiang flies to Formosa
witnesses charge Kostov informed on comrades under pro-Nazi war regime; others confess to spying for Yugoslavia
The week just passed has brought an end to formal warfare on the Chinese mainland. The capital has been withdrawn to Formosa and Chiang Kaishek has declared that mainland operations are being organized on a guerrilla basis. The roles of the parties to the strife have thus, in effect, been reversed.
Communist party Central Com minutes reveal charges of nationalistic deviations and mistrust of USSR against ex-Deputy Premier Gomulka, Gen Spychalski and others
USSR offer to return western border areas to Ger seen possible as pol move linked with Stalin's birthday
J A Barry article sees discrediting of Communist propaganda among French workers essential for US victory
USSR Deputy Comr Lt Gen Zheltov charges resurgence of neo-nazism; demands Govt measures to curb trend
Rude Pravo ed V Novy ousted; plant reptd under heavy police guard because of alleged sabotage of presses
Brit zone paper repts G Eisler rebuked for pol speech and ordered by Soc Unity party to submit all future pol statements to Govt for approval
Laborite G Craddock wins S Bradford, Yorkshire, by-election; Lord Pres of Council Morrison and Lord Woolton comment
The American Civil Liberties Union has held an inquest on the disturbances which accompanied two attempts last summer, the later one successful, to hold a Paul Robeson concert at Lakeland Acres near Peekskill. It lays the blame where it thinks it belongs. More important in the long run, perhaps, are the recommendations which the Union makes in the hope of preventing future disturbances of the same sort and of preserving the basic liberties.
press repts Govt seizes Communist party members as alleged agents of Anglo-Amer and Yugoslav spy rings
Premier Bidault rebuffed by Natl Assembly on proposal to increase pensions; wins compromise; bill returned to Finance Comm
6 confess to spying for US, GB and Yugoslavia; denounce Kostov; Stefanov alleges plot to annex Bulgaria to Yugoslavia; T Tsonchev links Heath; testimony revd
Eisenhower assails centralized govt and paternalism, s, Galveston, Tex; hopes US will never come to point where revolt against centralized govt or centralized bureaucracy will be necessary; tells people who want security to find it in prison; scores panaceas
Govt office repts Grotewohl ill with flu but W Ger rumors of attempted suicide following dispute with Deputy Min-Pres Ulbricht persist; argument with USSR Amb Pushkn also reptd; Ulbricht seen attempting purge of all old-line Communists; s on election cited
E C Gray sees middle-income group as best investment source; notes 50% drop in bond yields, past 20 yrs
High Comr McCloy minimizes nationalism dangers; sees constructive efforts outweighing sinister motivations; defends US end of licensing pol parties
Yugoslavia denounces trial as USSR effort to obscure its own aim to dominate Govt; says Dimitrov tried to check anti-Yugoslav agitation
Kostov repudiates alleged confession; denies spying and treason charges; admits ideological errors; ex-Min Stefanov pleads guilty
ECA Admr Hoffman sees cold war half won, s, NYC; asks business leaders back US aims; warns of 'garrison state' as alternative to success
ADA dir C M LaFollette urges J F Byrnes to form and head bipartisan conservative alignment, lr to Byrnes; cites Bricker proposal
Yugoslavs see Kostov trial as Cominform effort to justify drive against Tito regime; deny indictment charges linking Yugoslav leaders; see further move to curb nationalistic deviation
formation of extreme Rightist Socialist Reichs and Ger Action parties and Communal party under Christian Socialist disident A Hauseleiter follows end of US licensing
USSR said to delay setting up Sorab repub for Wend population centered near Berlin because of E Ger antipathy, lr
Army pub Obrana Lidu scores Bishops as enemies of state; Osservatore Romano comment on Bishops' defiance of Govt
US privately informs other Govts it will not consider recognition while Nationalists resist on China mainland
In the strongest protest addressed to a Soviet puppet regime thus far, the Roman Catholic Bishops of Czechoslovakia have notified their Government that they will not obey its recent church control laws. They call on the Communist masters of their country to revise these laws or face an open religious conflict in which the Church is willing to endure new martyrdom.
Chiang virtually takes over as Pres; Kuomintang com backs Chiang as Pres when Li leaves for US; Li leaves, Hong Kong; asks US aid
say they cannot submit to destruction of religious freedom; warn law may provoke religious fight; 5 major objections cited
LONDON, Dec. 3 -- The overthrow of the Labor Government in New Zealand by the Conservative party this week after an election campaign in which the issues bore a broad superficial resemblance to those on which the coming general election will be fought here was a cause for public rejoicing among British Conservatives.
Formosan Independence League urges MacArthur to oust China Nationalists and occupy island until freedom is obtained; statement denounces Nationalists and Communists
comment on seizure of French natls; acts seen move to frighten Poles into curbing contacts with Westerners; cartoon
Pres Peron to sue Buenos Aires Prensa and Nacion for printing opposition charge he has enriched self in office; aides rept on his preelecton and current financial position, press conf
Polish authorities plan to try French student E Decaux on spy charges; expelled French natl G Auffrey reptdly commits suicide on train returning to France
Deputy Under-Sec Rusk on need for strong partners to share responsibilities, s, West Point; US Mil Acad student conf backs US policy
Rev A Krishkor admits guilt; links Nekludov and USSR Embassy sec P Yeliseyev; ct procedure revd
Brit Commons completes passage of bill granting Canadian Parliament right to amend Const on matters in its jurisdiction
Schumacher takes Bundestag seat as suspension order is withdrawn; apologizes to Adenauer; R Pferdmenges named to fill vacant Christian Dem seat
145 persons file notices of intention to sue as result of P Robeson Peekskill riots of Aug 27 and Sept 4
11,000 of 12,000 teachers ousted, '45, for Nazi ties regain posts, official rept to Bavarian Land Comr's Office
Yunnan Prov Gov, Gen Lu Han, expected to leave for Hong Kong; resignation seen; Gen Ma Ying reptd acting as Gov
Sen H A Smith repts to Sen com and Sec Acheson after 6-wks Far East tour; urges US to protect Pacific Island positions by occupying Formosa; backs 'united' US policy under single person, preferably Gen MacArthur
Brit-US resolution on peace essentials approved, 53-5, by UN Assembly; Min Pearson (Canada) and Dr Santa Cruz (Chile) explain majority views; Min Vishinsky replies; debate illus
The surprising defeat of the Labor party in the New Zealand elections has set political headquarters and chancelleries all over the world buzzing with speculation. The British Labor party has naturally had a bad shock, and the effect in Australia, where a general election is to be held on Dec. 10 and where another Labor Government is in power, must have been even greater.
Nationalist officials evacuate Chungking; arrive, Chengtu; Chiang reptdly does not seek Presidency; Acting Pres Li reptdly intends to visit US in official capacity
Ex-Deputy Premier Kostov and 10 other Communist leaders indicted on charges of plotting with Premier Tito and other Yugoslav leaders, US and Brit agents to overthrow Govt, to murder late Premier Dimitrov, and to annex Bulgaria to Yugoslavia; US Min Heath and others linked; names
Gen Eisenhower sees personal security overemphasized at expense of individual liberties, s, St Andrews Soc dinner; says people want champagne and caviar when they should have beer and hot dogs
Non-Secretarian Anti-Nazi League charges Chancellor Adenauer aide H Blankehorn was pre-war Nazi agent in US; urges Pres Truman bar implementation of Big-3 conf pending W Ger Govt purge of Nazis
Cominform urges Eur workers and others unite to fight Western 'imperialism' and back USSR peace drive; scores right-wing Socialists as peace enemies
Yugoslav disdainful; Tito and other leaders reptd calm; E Eur envoys barred from state reception; no Stalin pors shown; Amb Vilfan comments
LONDON, Nov. 29 (AP) -- Following are excerpts communique adopted by the Communist Information Bureau after a meeting this month in Hungary, as transcribed and translated from Russian by the Soviet Monitor from a Moscow radio broadcast:
US authorizes visa for Li to enable him to get med care; question of US aid to China not precluded
Li Li-san admits tactical errors, 20 yrs ago, when he differed with program of Mao Tze-tung
Bavarian Land Comr rept shows resurgence of nazism; Nazis also reptd regaining control in other US zone states; US effort at re-educ seen failing; Bavarian situation and potential described
Austin urges USSR 'live and let live,' s, UN Assembly; Vishinsky charges West foments war and US has world network of mil bases
Sen O'Conor and Reprs Wagner, Lodge and Fulton oppose recognition, ss, Com to Defend Amer by Aiding Anti-Communist China
US State Dept seeks information on fate of 2 Navy airmen failing to return from routine training flight, Tsingtao area, Oct, '48
Govt to try 12 White Guard Russian emigres for espionage; V Vlakovitch says Cominform spent $80 million for anti-Govt propaganda
Chiang and Premier Yen quit Chungking; 2 drs sent to persuade Li to return to post reptdly fail in mission; Knowland conf with Li; Gen Pai reptdly told Knowland that he could not hold out much longer and that he hoped for US aid
Rev Niemoeller scores Western Allies and USSR for div of country; stresses strength of Ger desire for unity
Communists reach Kikiang, 40 mi S of Chungking; capture Nanchuan, Fowling and Liuchow; evacuation of Chungking spurred; martial law declared
Western Allies and Ger reaction to Schumacher expulsion discussed; Schumacher seen at fault but Adenauer failure to keep Bundestag informed criticized; Socialists rally, Berlin and Hanover, in support of Schumacher
Baelen warns Polish Govt to cease arrests of French natls after seizure of Vice Consul Boitte and 2 secs; Poland admits reprisal nature of arrests; French Min Schuman charges Poland violates UN Charter; France expels 9 more Poles
Rift between Canadian Mins Howe and Garson linked to Parliament debate on pigeonholing of rept on milling indus
Exiled ex-Premier Radescu offers to testify to UN that USSR Min Vishinsky gave ex-King Michael an ultimatum to dismiss '45 Govt
Polish police foiled in attempt to seize French Embassy Sec H Loisel and wives of 2 other aides, Warsaw; Grosz says Robineau will face trial; scores mass arrests and expulsions of Poles by France; 3 more French natls held; France confirms actions against Poles for irregular activities; Rivoire summoned to Paris
Bishops warn priests they will be unfrocked if they violate Cath principles; set rules for continuing clerical functions; Vatican comments
Paris police raid offices of Polish Red Cross, Boy Scouts and veteran groups; seize Polish vice consul in Lille and other natls; Polish Information Bur releases French Consul Rivoire lr repudiating Robineau; Warsaw scores French reprisal acts
French free Polish crew and plane; reptdly carry out reprisal arrests of Poles in Paris; say incident is not closed; Renaud and Brossin de Mere leave Poland
Cong com seizes accts of 4 Buenos Aires newspapers to see if papers were paid by coalition parties to oppose Pres Peron in '46 electron
Krock on proposal to form conservative and mid-rd orgn to match pol influence of CIO-PAC and ADA; Dr R Moley views discussed
Li repdly declines to return to Chungking; reptdly plans trip to US to get US views on aid for 3d regime; unsuccessfully seeks int with US Sec Snyder; mobile Cabinet to move about in war zones planned; Mins to be limited to staff of 100
Deputy Min-Pres Ulbricht announces dismissal of all E Ger Govt employes living in Western Berlin and other measures aimed at guarding security
Dr L Herwegen and 7 other officials of nationalized Ger Continental Gas Corp arrested, E Ger, for alleged misuse of co funds and property and plot to rebuild co in W Ger
Sir B N Rau (India) and G Andren (Sweden) oppose USSR proposal to brand US and GB as warmongers, Assembly com
Poland says Robineau confession bares big spy ring and implicates Renaud and Brossin de Mere; Govt spokesman V Grosz produces alleged confession; USSR effort to tighten controls and curb contacts with West seen
In a colorful ceremony the last British military units have made their farewell to Greece. Their going is the symbol of the passing of a phase in modern Greek history. It recalls the heroic and ill-fated stand in the peninsula against the German onslaught. It recalls the return of the Britons for the campaign of liberation and the firm stand that was made to forestall a Communist coup.
Hemisphere solidarity stressed as flags of 20 nations are presented to Abp Stepinac HS, White Plains, NY
Acting Pres Li arrival, Hong Kong, for med treatment stirs talk of final break with Chiang; repr denies Li has resigned or abandoned anti-Communist war
Amer IT&T exec R A Vogeler reptd missing; believed held by pol police; Govt silent to US query; Vogeler told wife he had been shadowed; Brit IT&T exec E Sanders whereabouts also in doubt
Govts exch protests; French to detain plane crew until French Amb is permitted to see Robineau; Poland expels 2 French aides Renaud and Brossin de Mere
Chiang career revd; he is seen as center of group that will resist Communists to finish; maps showing area of Chiang control, '28, '41, '46 and Nov, '49
French consular aide A S Robineau revealed to be under arrest for alleged espionage after disappearing as he was about to board plane for Paris; French Embassy aide F Renaud also questioned by security police; Amb Baelen protests; French impound Polish plane on arrival, Paris
700 invited guests arrive, Rengsdorf, to attend banned Nauheim Circle meeting; meeting stopped by Ger police
Premier Cyrankiewicz assails Socialists as opportunists; S Ignar is rumored slated to succeed Cyrankiewicz; Vice Mins Kowalewski, Berowy and Kochanowicz dismissed
55 get prison terms on charge of plotting to overthrow regime and spying for foreign power
USSR reptd planning to close all pol prisons in zone and turn prisoners over to Ger Govt
US, GB, France and Australia urge UN Gen Assembly vote to continue Balkan Com and to order Bulgaria and Albania to stop aiding rebels; USSR again asks Greece to grant gen amnesty; Min Tsaldaris (Greece) offers to resume diplomatic ties with neighbor states
7 members of Reparations Mission in Ger, headed by Dr L Rozboril, get pol asylum from Brit authorities
Dr T F Tsiang backs formation of new Liberal party to fight for independence; suggests former Amb to US Dr Hu Shih become party head; denies suggestion implies break with Kuomintang
Chancellor Adenauer bars planned French zone meeting of USSR-sponsored Nauheim Circle; W Ger founder Prof Noack will continue efforts to discuss reunification in W Ger; USSR and E Gers seen hoping to use group to balance 3-power conf effects
France asks Govt recall Paris Embassy aide S Kubik and rejects new mil attache in reprisal for Czech ouster of 2 French aides
Govt drive to expel all anti-Communist foreigners without official status reptd; Interior Min to screen aliens wishing to remain over 2 mos
Pres Bierut announces United Workers party purge; ex-Deputy Min Dubiel, W Lechowicz and M Jaroszewicz cited as subversives; M Spychalski resigns as Construction Min
Acting Pres Li fails to appear for confs set by Generalissimo Chiang, Chungking; Communist troops reptd advancing toward Chungking after meeting little or no resistance, Kweichow; other forces reach Yuyang; tension rises, Chungking
UN Assembly rejects com resolution requiring powers to file detailed plans on leading natives to independence; approves flying UN flag with natl flags in trust areas
Natl League of Women Voters drive to further women's pol role by participation in major pol parties backed by Truman, natl officers visit to Truman
Govt reptdly confiscates homes of business and professional men, Prague, seized in move to eliminate middle class
C L Sulzberger comment; sees USSR move to tighten security and pol controls and eliminate Titoism
gen optimism following conf and Acheson visit discussed; Govt seen having role in all future talks on Ger; Adenauer sets policy debate
Gomulka, Spychalski and Vice Min Kliszko ousted from central com for rightist deviation and pol irresponsibility; text of Warsaw radio statement; Rokossovsky named com member; Gomulka por
Sen Shinwell sees pol bias in s; Labor party seen opposing further action by Ch of England in pol
central com meetings kept secret; absence of Gomulka and Gen M Spychalski from Polish-Soviet Friendship Soc meeting noted
new purge seen brewing as Vice Min E Ochab assails alleged nationalistic deviations and anti-USSR attitude of ex-Min Gomulka; Communst party central com meets; Gomulka reptd ousted
comment on de Gaullist and Communist attacks on Govt; Socialists fear Communist strength; see Govt approval of Ger inclusion in W Eur Union leading to crisis
Interior Min Nosek announces ch marriages will be illegal after Jan 1, '50; only vows made before Natl Coms will be recognized; Govt rejects Bishops' modification of loyalty oath; amnesties 153 more RC laymen
Admr Hoffman article holds free world and balking of USSR imperialism depends on US leadership in solving dollar shortage; illus
plan offered to Western Allies by Chancellor Adenauer reptdly backs French financial role in Ruhr steel indus
Govt puts further curbs on ch; places religious pubs, educ and charitable activities under new Ch Affairs Min
Vishinsky urges peace offensive, s, NYC Soviet-Amer Friendship Council dinner; stresses USSR desire for US amity
F A Virkus group, formed in July, holds 2d Repub Round-up, Chicago; 230 delegates from 32 states attend; imply bolt from party; M E Taylor repts on conf with G Gabrielson; says he regards group as imposters
Lehman victory analyzed; Dewey, Dulles, A A Berle Jr, Fitzgerald, Pfeiffer, Truman, VP Barkley, J Potofsky comment; Lehman wires former Sen Wagner; Lehman and Dulles seen candidates for Sen long term in '50
FBI probes alleged ring seeking to recruit non-citizen Chinese in US into China Communist camp; warns on deportation
Parliament session on Chancellor Figl program disputed as Socialist, People's party and Communist members object to Nazi-tinged Independent party spokesman remark
LAKE SUCCESS, Nov. 9 -Following is the text of an atomic energy statement by Brig. Gen. Carlos P. Romulo, President of the United Nations General Assembly, including his letter to the six permanent members of the United Nations Atomic Energy Commission -the United States, the Soviet Union, Britain, France, China and Canada:
F Kalinowska asks return of 123 children from Canada; says Brit rept indicates some parents alive
McCloy says W Ger Govt has not outlined specific demands; Chancellor Adenauer seen counting on McCloy to present views
Rokossovsky becomes Defense Min and Marshal of Polish Armies; pledges to strengthen mil forces; speculation on reasons for move
LONDON, Nov. 6 (AP) -- Excerpts from a speech delivered in Moscow today by Georgi M. Malenkov, a member of the Politburo, as broadcast from Moscow:
G M Malenkov charges US 'warmongers' seek world empire, but will destroy themselves, s, Moscow; sees USSR calm
USSR envoys reptdy quiz Swiss and other diplomats on US plans in event of war; Sec Acheson reptd saying US will back Tito short of war
E Crankshaw sees sound attitude toward USSR despite occupation; warns against possible USSR use of pol disunity
preparations; reptd absence of Deputy Premier Kaganovitch por in official pictures seen indicating his ouster from Politburo
Govt hangs 6 seized in Aug for allegedly plotting to overthrow regime; 10 get life sentences; many others reptdly get shorter terms
E Ger Govt purges of non-Communist elements seen harming prestige of Govt and USSR; zonal Liberal Dem party repts purges intensified; link with arrival of Amb Pushkin seen
The text of President Truman's radio address last night, as recorded by THE NEW YORK TIMES, follows:
Troop shifts in the Balkans, traditionally the tinder box of Europe, have aroused some apprehension in recent months, and various incidents along the Yugoslav frontier have now been pointed up by the alleged shelling of Yugoslav soil by Hungarian forces.
Govt rejects US protest on ouster of aides and seizure of Meryn; US State Dept demands explanation from Amb Outrata
Laborite J Cooper wins N Kensington by-election retaking seat on London County Council from Conservatives; speculation on meaning
Lehman s on welfare state, Yorkville; at mfrs meeting, New Yorker Hotel; tours Nassau County; Levittown reception noted
Bundestag votes for Bonn as permanent capital; High Comr McCloy lr to Chancellor Adenauer on factors against Frankfort seen reason for rejection in favor of Bonn
Govt orders JDC to end operations; action seen part of drive to oust reprs of all foreign orgns; HIAS reptdly faces similar action
decrees Abp Beran and Bishops must take loyalty oath before Premier Zapotocky; text; new ch law provisions cited; salary scale noted; clergy to get pensions
T K Quinn urges Cong end econ concentration; outlines dangers; offers resolution; scores press and radio for misinforming pub; W W Vandeveer says small business needs tax adjustments, not curbs on big business, subcom
Govt sponsored eds conf criticizes lack of Communist party propaganda in press; Pravda article scoring Trud failure cited
C L Sulzberger on USSR use of E Ger non-Communist leftists to back Oder-Neisse line to shield Communists from future critcism
Min Vishinsky (USSR) charges Greek rebels got arms from outside Balkan area; gen debate ends; Assembly Pres Romulo conf with Greek Min Tsaldaris on ct martial suspension
UN Assembly com backs limited supervision by UN over colonial possessions merged with adjoining trust areas, 38-9
Sen Dulles on Lehman bigotry charge and on welfare state, s, Kings County Repub Com; Sen Ives s for Dulles
nationalization bill enactment spurred by curb on Lords power to block legis; passes 2d reading, Commons
US asks Govt withdraw NYC Consul Gen Munk and Washington Embassy housekeeper J Horvath; Munk por
Chief of Gen Staff Kinov and Chief of Army's Pol Dept Gen Bulgaranov relieved of posts; dismissals seen part of purge
C L Sulzberger on de Gaulle strength; de Gaulle views on current Const and other issues cited
minor officials being purged; trial seen brewing; aim held to discredit Western agencies in country and cut their contacts with Poles
Gottwald lists achievements, Independence Day s; holds ch-state issue solved; Vatican circles comment on priests release
Govt releases 127 RC priests; says clerics promise loyalty to regime; Dr F Onderek backs ch hierarchy; says he tried to protect priests from retaliatory measures for opposing ch law
US threatens further steps if Govt does not act on protest over Meryn arrest; US Consul Parry visits Meryn; says he appears in good health
Govt communique charges Hungarian troops fire across border, Dolni Miholjac; text; map; Yugoslav reserves reptd kept under arms
Ukraine delegate to UN Manuilsky refers to China delegate as repr of group that 'stole' $3 billion from US taxpayers; Dr Chieh Hou-kan replies, UN Assembly com
Australia to propose UN set up sanctuary in Greece under internatl protection for rebel refugees; B V Cohen (US) urges arms embargo adoption
Czech expels Embassy aides Col G Helliot and M Salabert and holds ex-aide G Garcette for spying
Govt orders Internatl Red Cross Com to end operations and withdraw staff; action seen aimed at expelling all agencies employing foreign personnel; UN officials deny repts of pressure on ICEF, FAO and other UN orgns; Mrs E Blue says Foster Parents Plan is pressed to leave
Vatican says clergy's acceptance of Govt pay and oath to state is maximum ch concession; says Bishops' order aimed to protect priests from persecution; Govt tells clergy to obey state
US Sec Acheson rejects spy charges against US aides; holds move aims at intimidating Czechs in preparation for pol trials; scores police tactics; Embassy protests bar on visits to Meryn
J Reston on current trend toward diplomatic overstatement; cites frequent US protests on various issues; doubts good results
US, GB, Australia and China propose that UN set arms embargo against Albania and Bulgaria; warn of calling special session to consider threat to peace; score states failure to return children to Greece
US aide J G Heyn expelled; charged with indus espionage; US State Dept says Meryn has no diplomatic immunity
Houston, Tex, School Bd bans civics text, Amer Govt, by Dr F Magruder for ref to certain trends as socialistic
Socialists accept coalition role; E Thomas reptdly replaces D Mayer as Labor Min; Radicals Obstruct Cabinet formation
Jefferson Mil Coll gets $50 million grant on pledge to teach state' rights and white supremacy
Lehman on welfare state, labor crises, Taft-Hartley Law and sale of war plants, ss in Rochester and other up-state cities
Byrd and Lt Gen W B Smith urge aid to exiles, Iron Curtain drive opening, NYC; exiles present listed
again denies request; Meryn to be tried on spy charges; 4 sentenced to death, 4 to life imprisonment, Louny
Vishinsky asks UN intervention to halt death sentences against 8 rebels, UN com; resolution opposed by B V Cohen (US)
Bidault tries to pick Cabinet before seeking Assembly approval; de Gaulle again asks Parliament dissolution; L Blum explains Socialist rejection of coalition
US and GB conf with Govt officials on withdrawal of Brit troops and cut in Greek Army; US proposals cited; rebel radio repts fighting in Macedonia
Communist officials Comrs Skelnar and Pokorny jailed for taking bribes from J Masek to keep his shop from nationalization
G Bidault nominated Premier; prospects of forming Cabinet dim; Pres Auriol and Assembly Pres Herriot attempt to heal party split; C de Gaulle urges Parliament dissolution
Foreign Min Clementis seen facing inquiry on deviation after return from US; pol role noted; por; he shuns comment
Govt scores Adenauer attack; Pres Pieck's son-in-law, R Staimer, Police Pres Markgraf and ex-Min Bechler reptd held
Czech expels 11 more Yugoslav Embassy aides to retaliate for Czech expulsion; Yugoslavia scores Czech in reply to pact denunciation
Gen Yeh Chien-ying reptdly arrives, Canton, with staff of 2,000 admrs; to become Canton Mayor and Kwantung Prov Gov
comment on McGrath statement that CP is not outlawed; Flynn int; defense fund and Internatl Workers Order contribution noted; A G Hays on convictions
US Amb Austin stresses right of Chinese to choose own govt; sees UN discussion unable to change current situation
Govt officials, including Brig Gen Grosz, having contact with West removed or transferred from key mins
Govt replies to Poland's denunciation of pact; charges hostile acts; blames USSR; Hungary denies moving troops
Fatherland Front expels I Maslarov and P Kunin for espionage and treason; ousts Min Poptomov as sec gen; elects Deputy Tarpechev as successor; Parliament rushes bill on trial procedure
US Embassy clerk S Meryn imprisoned and US Charge d'Affaires I Patch ordered to leave country; both accused of espionage and formation of terrorist orgn; Patch por; L Schaffner, W Birge and S Taggart named as other ringleaders; 37 Czechs reptd tried for treason; more indus officials pursed; 28 more small businesses nationalized
Govt officials reptdly hold Acheson view premature because of Balkan threat; Premier Diomedes comment; Brit Foreign Office spokesman says troops will be withdrawn as soon as possible
People's Govt announces Cabinet of 37 Mins; Communist control seen despite posts held by non-Communists; leniency shown to former Kuomintang officials seen encouraging others to join Communists
Sec Acheson sees cut in US aid as result of warfare end; Kanellopoulos rules out cut in Army strength; rebel radio says small units continue to fight Govt troops
US Repr Judd charges US officials 'connived' against Nationalist Govt during World War II; cites J S Service rept to Gen Stilwell, dated Oct 10, '44; as contrast, cites Lt Gen Wedemeyer s on Chiang Kai-shek, Oct 10, '46
Internatl Rescue Com opens Iron Curtain Refugee Campaign for $1 million for aid; chmn Adm Byrd comments
R Mayer nominated Premier; repts ex-Premier Queuille refused nomination but agreed to enter Cabinet; most Cabinet incumbents seen returned
E Ger Govt outlines drive to control western sectors; E Berlin Mayor Ebert and others stress econ tactics
Wiener Tageszeitung (People's party) charges US, Brit and USSR intervention for Socialists by permitting Independent Voters League to run on separate ticket; League denies being neo-Nazi; People's party wins in Upper Austria munic elections
Let history take note of two events this past week: the end of the trial of the American Communists and the purge in Czechoslovakia. They are not unrelated; indeed, it would be hard to find two better examples of the working of the democratic and Communist systems. Each side dealt in its way with opponents within the fold.
Prof Hirsch reply to H Pol Oct 9 lr on Pres Heuss and late F Naumann policies
Mrs B Castle (GB) charges 10 million have fled from Soviet rule to W Ger, UN com
Judge Medina's court room on Foley Square is empty today. The eleven defendants who were convicted on Friday are in jail. The patient judge and jury, the diligent prosecutors are, we hope, enjoying their rest. If one could slip into that historic chamber in this period of temporary quietness, one might meditate about the future of revolutionary political parties in this country and about the future of American liberty.
M Karolyi reveals plea for retrial; notes Rajk 'admission' in blue book of having aided D Sulyok to flee country
Party split over posts delays Premier Moch Cabinet formation; R Pleven scores P Reynaud for opposing Moch
Belgrade Borba repts mass arrests and forthcoming trial of T Kostov; predicts Rajk type of trial; says date has been set and postponed; repts rising opposition to Govt
Mayor W O Voisine and E C Sauve charged with perjury before House com probing gray market, June, '48
Mayor O'Dwyer says Adm will rush Gansevoort incineration plant erection and similar projects; scores burying garbage
US Agr Dept suggests 6 sites for new 510 million Boston market to replace present antiquated area
Comr Minetti asks $15,000 from Estimate Bd to revise '45 plans: repts alterations would create more truck space
The Commercial Bulletin will say tomorrow: "The wool market has continued to improve, although top futures toward the end of the week have receded somewhat from their peak of Tuesday. There is more business in fine territory and Texas wool and some inquiry for medium bright wools.
The Commercial Bulletin will say tomorrow: "Business in the wool market continues slow. "There is slightly better interest in medium bright fleeces, which are slightly firmer; in fact one or two. sales are reported at a cent advance for the week. Fine wools.
The Commercial Bulletin will say tomorrow: "The wool market is for the most part marking time, pending the outcome of the proposed British trade treaty and the final determination of the wool loan terms.
A Cortesi article on black market sees Govt fight hopeless; repts dealings carried on openly in sts; illus
With most leading commodity markets, both in the United States and abroad, closing at noon, trading in futures was quiet on the local Exchanges yesterday.
AMSTERDAM. May 30 (Aneta) -- Prices remained steady in light trading today on the Amsterdam Stock Exchange. Quotations were virtually unchanged from yesterday's close. The official Stock Exchange index showed a net gain of 0.1 point.
The Commercial Bulletin will say tomorrow: "Only a vacation atmosphere pervades the seaboard wool trade this week. The volume of business done
LONDON, July 7.--Trading was dull and prices moved, irregularly on the Stock Exchange today. Consols at 57 5/8 showed a decline of 1/8 point. British 5 per cent. war loan was quoted at 99 7/8, as compared with 100 the preceding day, and the 4  per cent. loan at 94 was down .
A study by the Office of Price Administration has revealed that for many goods and services black market transactions have become more frequent and of greater significance since V-J Day.
AMSTERDAM, June 20 (ANETA) --The market was strong in moderately active trading on the Stock Exchange, as a result of reports -- denied after the market closed -- that the Indonesian Republic had accepted Netherlands proposals for settlement of the Indonesian problem.
AMSTERDAM, June 5 (Aneta) -- The market eased off in light trading on the Stock Exchange. The generally depressed tone of the market was attributed to misinterpretation by traders of reports from Indonesia. Indies plantations issues, industrials and oils showed the greatest losses.
The cotton futures market on the New York Cotton Exchange was steady and moderately active Saturday. Final prices were 2 to 4 points lower than on Friday.
CHICAGO, May 25 -- Grain markets were easy at the opening on the Board of Trade today but rallied and closed unsettled with wheat 1/4 cent a bushel higher to 1/4 cent lower, and corn, unchanged to 1 1/4 cents up. Oats were 3/8 cent lower to 1/8 cent higher.
AMSTERDAM, July 11 (ANETA) -- The Government's policy statement on Indonesia had little apparent influence on the market, as trading was quiet and prices for the most part showed little change. Indies plantations issues and shipping shares closed higher, while industrials and oil stocks were lower.
AMSTERDAM, July 9 (ANETA) -- The market rose sharply in active trading on the Stock Exchange, reflecting optimism concerning developments in the Indonesian situation. Indies plantations issues, shipping shares and oil stocks registered gains, while industrials and banking stocks were irregular. State bonds were firm.
There is one area in which Mr. Truman would have a difficult time, we imagine, persuading the local citizenry this week that Government controls are needed to prevent a runaway inflation of prices. That is in Wall Street's investment and speculative community.
AMSTERDAM, May 19 (Aneta) --The market was generally lower in light trading on the Stock Ex-change. The decline was attributed to an uneasy feeling concerning the lower prices on the New York Stock Exchange. Weakness was evident from the start and opening prices, with few exceptions, were lower than Friday's closings.
Trading in cotton futures on Saturdays was resumed yesterday on the New York Cotton Exchange, after having been dropped all summer, and final prices were 6 points higher to 6 points lower than on Friday.
AMSTERDAM, June 13 (Aneta) --The market moved higher in light trading on the Stock Exchange. Indies plantations issues led the advance followed by industrials, while shipping stocks were easier. Banking shares and State bonds were steady.
AMSTERDAM, June 4 (Aneta) -- The market rallied strongly in increased trading on the Stock Exchange. The firmer tone was attributed to favorable reports of Netherlands industrial developments. Industrials led the advance, followed by Indies plantations issues and banking shares. Shipping stocks and state bonds were steady.
AMSTERDAM, Aug. 7 (Aneta) -- Prices moved higher in extremely dull trading on the Stock Exchange. Although the uncertainty of the Indonesian situation kept most buyers out of the market, industrials and Indies plantations issues were strong with particular interest in shares of Malang Plantations following news that the company's estates in the Indies had been recovered intact along with considerable stocks of coffee and rubber.
AMSTERDAM, March 12 (Aneta) -- Stock market interest centered in the initial dealings in Philips rights, with other business virtually at a standstill. Philips, ordinary, ex rights, closed at 295 1/8, rights, which permit present holders to buy one new share for each share now held, were quoted between 600 and 623 guilders, and trading will continue until the subscription date of March 23.
AMSTERDAM, May 28 (Aneta) -- The Stock Exchange Association today announced modification of its trading hours effective June 2. The modification advances the trading period ten minutes, the market being open from 1:20 to 2:30 P.M. (8:20 to 9:30 A.M. E.D.T.), instead of from 1:30 to 2:40.
U S Treas arranges to purchase newly mined silver through Bank of Canada; purchases expected to have little effect on silver market
The wild advance on the Stock Exchange, in shares of American companies manufacturing steel or other potential war material, was in many respects an unfortunate occurrence.
Moderate declines in quiet trading were the rule in local commodity markets yesterday. An exception appeared in the market for coffee futures, where prices advanced as a result of the sale at auction of part of the February allotment of the Federal Farm Board's coffee by the Grain Stabilization Corporation.
AMSTERDAM, March 25 (Aneta) --Prices on the Stock Exchange rose sharply as a result of the signing of the Linggadjati agreement. Oils, industrials, Indies plantation issues and bank stocks were higher. Shipping shares were firm while State bonds closed lower.
AMSTERDAM, May 22 (Aneta) -- Trading was light on the Stock Exchange as prices continued irregularly lower. Industrial stocks declined, while shipping shares were higher. Banking stocks and Indies plantations issues were steady. Netherlands State bonds held firm.
AMSTERDAM, March 10 (Aneta) -- Prices were lower in light trading on the Stock Exchange. Oil stocks led the decline, while industrials, snipping and Indies plantations issues were mixed. Bank stocks and State bonds were steady.
Receipts, 3,663 packages. The market closes the week still apparently well supported at Friday's quite sharp recovery, values here holding unchanged on all grades while Chicago recorded another advance. The liberal supplies of foreign butter on hand are generally held with confidence though spot prices were irregular.
AMSTERDAM, July 10 (Aneta) -- Prices were firm in slow trading on the Stock Exchange as the public awaited publication of the expected Government statement on its Indonesian policy. Indies plantations issues, oil stocks and banking shares were strong, while industrials and shipping stocks were lower. State bonds were steady.
AMSTERDAM, Aug. 8 (Aneta) -- Prices were steady in extremely light trading on the Stock Exchange. Industrials were generally higher, while shipping stocks. Indies plantations issues, banking shares and state bonds showed only minor changes.
AMSTERDAM, Sept. 9 (Aneta) -- Prices were irregular in limited trading on the Stock Exchange. Banking shares moved higher while industrials showed a mixed trend. Shipping stocks, Indies plantations issues and State bonds were steady.
AMSTERDAM, March 19 (Aneta) --Prices on the Stock Exchange were firm in moderate trading, due to the expectation of a solution of the Indies situation. Industrials and banking shares were irregular, while Indies Plantations stocks moved higher.
ed on Securities Exch Act provisions on deals by officers, dirs and large stockholders in securities of their cos as factor in decline
AMSTERDAM, March 11 (Aneta)--Prices were generally firmer in increased volume of trading on the Stock Exchange. Quotations for industrials, Indies Plantations issues and banking shares registered only slight changes.
AMSTERDAM, Aug. 19 (ANETA) -- Prices on the Stock Exchange moved up briskly in light trading. Gains were most notable among Indies plantations issues, predicting an expected favorable development in the Indonesian situation. Industrials, oils and shipping shares also were strong, while banking stocks and State bonds were steady.
AMSTERDAM, June 9 (Aneta) -- Prices were irregular in quiet trading on the Stock Exchange. Phillips moved sharply higher on rumors of a forthcoming capital increase, while Netherlands Indies Handlebank advanced on reports of a possible merger with another institution specializing in Indies banking.
AMSTERDAM, Feb. 19 (Aneta) -- Following the rally of Wednesday on fears of compulsory liquidation of American securities, stocks steadied today on official assurance the new plan would be on a limited scale.
AMSTERDAM, Aug. 21 (Aneta) -- Continued sharp advances in Indies plantations issues, apparently in expectation of renewed Netherlands action in Indonesia, were the only notable features of a dull trading session on the Stock Exchange.
During the call on 'change three lots of 150 tubs each creamery extras sold at 24 1/4c and there were some unsatisfied bids at the close but the buying element was not much in evidence and the market developed a noticeable weakness. Most of the trading on the floor and on the street was at 24 1/4c, only particularly desirable lots mainly showing light color brought a premium.
AMSTERDAM, April 8 (Aneta) --Trading was active, following the Easter holidays, and prices were irregular on the Stock Exchange. New highs were made by many of the industrials while Indies plantations issues declined sharply on rather pessimistic reports.
AMSTERDAM, July 2 (Aneta) -- Prices were irregular in light trading on the Stock Exchange. Industrials and State bonds were higher, while Indies plantations and funds and shipping issues were weak. Bank stocks were firm.
AMSTERDAM, May 20 (Aneta) -- Stocks continued to decline in brisk trading on the Stock Exchange. Netherlands and Indies issues were unsettled by the Wall Street trend as well as by the apprehension and uncertainty here concerning the forthcoming capital levy and probable liquidations.
The market wound up with further strength developing both here and at Chicago, chief firmness being afforded by the climb of all options to new high levels. Offerings locally have cleared closely in most quarters, holders are decidedly firm in their views and the market appeared strong up to mid-day. Receipts, 5,590 packages.
Imaginative Wall Street arrived Long ago at the conviction that this is an era in finance in which all precedent may be disregarded; that the markets are not only setting up new economic principles but that judgment based on experience is certain to go wrong.
BERLIN, May 31 -- In the last session until Tuesday, trading on the Boerse here today opened on a strong note, with the turnover on a larger scale than at any time in recent weeks.
AMSTERDAM, June 19 (Aneta) -- Trading on the Stock Exchange was quiet and prices were generally lower. Indies plantations issues, shipping shares and oil stocks showed slight losses, while banking stocks were irregular. State bonds and industrials were firm.
The market closed the week in full steady to firm position here. General buying late Friday and early Saturday was not broad, but the situation is being fully supported by the prevailing firmness at Chicago. Where all future options opened higher. Recent statistics are generally more favorable, with the exception of consumption, and an undertone of confidence is general.
Butter. Receipts, 4,928 packages. The market closes with no change in price levels and the tone at the moment seemed steady, although the immediate outlook is still uncertain. Prospective receipts for Monday are expected to be heavy and there will undoubtedly be steady pressure to keep stocks moving.
The market opened somewhat easier Saturday morning, with 91 score, extras and higher grades off 1/4c, extras declining to 25 1/4c. No sales were made under the call with offerings posted at 25 1/2c and bids of 25c unsatisfied at the close. Private offerings of extras, however, were made from the floor at 25 1/4c and we quote this figure outside.
The butter market has developed a decidedly bullish move this week, carrying prices steadily upward. The definitely curtailed production outlook has been the chief basis for strength with government relief buying aiding in a firmer sentiment. The situation at the wind-up seemed very well supported.
Butter. Receipts, 13,576 packages. The market closed the week in firm position, with prices fully supported under the general bullish sentiment prevailing. Friday's quotations were nominally unchanged yesterday, with very limited street business, and exchanges both here and at Chicago were closed.
The small oversubscription to the Treasury's offering of $800,000,000 bonds at 3 per cent interest with 24-years'...
Reduction of their annual dividend rate last week from 7 per cent to 5 by the Baltimore  Ohio, from 12 to 8 by the Lackawaana, from 10 to 8 by the Westinghouse Electric and from 5 to 3 by the Anaconda Copper,...
The market rallied somewhat yesterday morning, with prices, both spot and future recovering a little both here and at Chicago Receipts of fancy fresh have cleared pretty closely locally and with renewed signs of buying support some of the recent nervousness has been dissipated. The outlook, however, is still rather uncertain and favors frequent fluctuations.
Bond dealings last month continued on an active scale and, although the turnover was slightly below that of the previous month, it was the second largest of any month in three years, or since September, 1939, and the heaviest for the month of October in six years, or since 1936.
When the stock market goes up, many hopes rise with it. In the present boom very little has been heard of losers. They must be a remarkably well controlled set of speculators. The winners, on the contrary, are exuberant. The anticipations of merchants and others who count on getting some of the profits ...
Monday, Aug. 4, 1941 Changes have been made in the list of stocks comprising THE NEVT YORK TIMES rail average. Erie (old), Missouri-Kansas-Texas and Pittsburgh  West Virginia have been removed and for them have been substituted Erie (new) w.i., Gulf. Mobile  Northern and Western Maryland.
Receipts, 3,775 packages. Imports, 7,113 boxes. The market continued its recovering trend Saturday with prices a full 1/2c higher here and recording another rise of 3/4 1c at Chicago, where the options also ruled higher. Values there held well above a parity with our level. The recent show of support has dissipated the earlier local weakness, for the time being at least.
Butter. Receipts, 7,432 packages. The market cleared very closely Friday afternoon. Buyers were on hand early Saturday morning looking for fresh supplies. There was quite a keen shortage and prices were bid up 1/2c on nearly all grades. Most of the wholesale business in extras was at 20c with a car of 90 score selling at 19c, and other grades ranged down about as quoted.
Butter. Receipts, 12,889 packages. Friday's decline did not bring out much buying support and the market declined another 1/2c Saturday morning. Offerings pretty free and distributing trade light. Some speculative buying on the basis of 16 1/2c for extras; the long attractive lines command 1/2c more.
The market was fully steady in New York on Saturday, with extras and higher grades advancing 1/4c, extras reaching 18 1/2c. The scarcity of offerings of undergrades resulted in 3/4c advance on 90 score, one sale being made under the call at 18 1/2c, and extras 91 score and 90 score are today all quoted at 18 1/2c.
Butter. Receipts, 12,253 packages. The market closed in unsettled position. Supplies are not cleared in first hands, and with heavy offerings available Tuesday the immediate outlook is uncertain and probably sliglitly easier.
Butter. Receipts, 55,698 packages. The market showed extreme irregularity yesterday. Early can sales of extras were effected at 23c, 1/2c below Saturday's level. This move, however, brought out freer buying interest, partly of a speculative character and values recovered to a range of 23 1/2@24c at the close.
Butter. Receipts, 6.979 packages. The market held unchanged on all grades at the opening yesterday but the tone gained firmness towart the close and the market wound up with a much more confident feeling in evidence. Offerings were less liberal and trade was taking hold in better shape.
The Commercial Bulletin will say tomorrow: "Scattering small sales of wool are reported but the market is generally very quiet and the trend of prices is easier. Just how much the market has declined is a matter for debate but the trend is downward both here and abroad.
Butter. Receipts, 22,810 packages. The market opened steady to firm yesterday but with Chicago prices suffering a sharp decline a rather unsettled tone developed toward the close. Some of the larger buyers were inclined to hold off and the immediate outlook is quite uncertain.
THERE has been a steady decrease in activity in the old Gansevoort Public Market, the great, open concrete-paved space bounded by West, Gansevoort, Little West Twelfth and Washington Streets and reserved by the city for the exclusive use of farmers and gardeners who sell their products, from parked motor trucks and wagons, to green grocers and pushcart venders from the five boroughs.
The better feeling which was noticeable Friday morning developed into marked firmness during the afternoon partly under influence of the announcement of resumption of government relief buying in the near future. Trade broadened materially and offerings cleared closely. Prices rallied sharply here Saturday morning and moderately at Chicago and confidence seemed more general at the wind-up. Receipts, 6,945 packages.
The course of the stock market, where the "averages" of typical selected stocks rose 15  points, or 11 3/8 per cent, in the two days after Mr. HOOVER'S debt proposal was announced...
The Commercial Bulletin will say tomorrow: "The broader. demand for wool noted a week ago has continued and the market is in a more cheerful tone than for a long time. Prices are higher slightly for fine wool both here and at country points, especially for short fine scoured wools for women's suede cloths.
Butter. Receipts, 7,020 packages. The market cleaned up pretty well Friday afternoon in most stores, but on Saturday, with a good deal of stock being unloaded and trade pretty well over for the week, increased selling pressure was noticeable, and part of the recent advance was lost.
By a roundabout process the American consumer is now subsidizing the export of wheat at lower prices than it brings at home. Washington dispatches yesterday reported the sale of 3,000,000 bushels in Latin America and the Orient by the North Pacific Emergency Export Association.
At his press conference yesterday the President issued a warning against black markets. It is true, as he says, that we have not many of them yet; but it is necessary to face the fact that the black market is an almost inevitable result wherever public demand and means of payment exceed available supplies at the legal maximum prices.
All classes of bonds were under renewed liquidation and prices and averages had the widest declines of any month since last May. They are now back to the levels of last July.
The market closed the week in firm position locally, with extras well supported on the basis of 25 cents. Chicago, however, ruled unsettled, with a fractional decline in some grades. Sentiment is variable, but a general feeling of stability is noticeable at prevailing rates here. Receipts, 10,607 packages.
In the immediate outcome of the World Wheat Conference at London our own Government professed to have small interest. The primary purpose of the London meeting was to fix export quotas for various producing countries during the crop year 1934-35. In this it failed.
Butter. Receipts 6,588 packages. The shortage of fine butter noticeable Friday was still in evidence early Saturday. Most of the stock due Saturday suffered more or loss delays in delivery and not getting on the market until late in the morning and during the afternoon.
BOSTON, Dec., 12. -- The local market opened steady and prices showed an inclination to move to a higher level. Calumet and Arizona was the particular feature of strength, advancing nearly three points to 52. United States Smelting was also in good demand and sold up to 35. There was some profit taking during the afternoon and the market closed irregular at a fractional decline.
Advices of continued heavy rains in the north central dairy sections tended to increase the conservative feeling which has been present for the past two or three days. Buying interest was less in evidence and sellers finally conceded 1/4c on the top grades of creamery, at which prices moderate business was reported.
Butter. Receipts, 12,822 packages. The market held steady on fine butter at the opening yesterday. Enough support was in evidence early to hold prices unchanged, but trading was by no means active up to noontime and receivers in general were free sellers with liberal supplies of fancy stock on hand.
Receipts, 12,372 packages. Continued demand for fine table grades and market firm, but without quotable change. Some houses short of top qualities of fresh and a large quantity of storage is moving because of the difference in prices between it and fresh.
Butter. Receipts, 13.844 packages. Some of the decided firmness noticeable at the close of last week was lost yesterday and while values were well supported during the early trading a rather uncertain feeling was in evidence. Arrivals for the week ended Saturday last, we believe, were the heaviest on record, totaling over 108,000 packages, and with heavy receipts expected this week some uneasiness was developing here and there.
Butter. Receipts, 8,820 packages. The break which has lately been anticipated materialized today, values on all grades falling 3/4@1c. Receipts over the week-end were much more liberal, with a good deal of delayed stock and quite a little butter diverted from Chicago coming forward, and there was general anxiety to get prices down to a safe basis.
Except for a steadying influence in cotton, which rallied near the close, losses predominated in other sections of the wholesale markets yesterday. The grains, Iard, dairy products, rubber, silk, hides, coffee, sugar and cocoa all reacted.
Butter. Receipts, 17.004 packages. The market broke 1 @ 1 1/2 during the morning yesterday: trading was under greatly increased pressure the move the heavy accumulation in first hands. The break in prices since Just before the New Year holiday has now totaled 6 1/2 c and it is very doubtful whether bottom has yet been reached.
Butter. Receipts, 13,450 packages. The market held unchanged on fancy butter yesterday with prices only barely supported. Supplies are liberal and general demand for top grades was only moderately broad. Receivers ware following a free selling policy and plenty of fancy stock was available at quotations.
Receipts, 10,703 packages. Fairly good trade in the finer grades of table butter, and market steady to firm, but without quotable change. Continued free movement in the finest of the held butter, stocks of which are getting in small compass. All other grades remain about as previously quoted.
Butter. Receipts. 5,692 Packages. With no buying support and some pressure to sell, prices sagged off about 1/2c on nearly all grades of fresh butter. Limited business at the decline and tone unsettled.
Receipts, 8,468 packages. A fair amount of fresh stock came in Saturday morning and with rather a limited demand prices were no more than steady. In some quarters there was a little unsettled feeling but the moderate amount of business that was accomplished was at generally unchanged prices.
Butter. Receipts. 19.033 packages. The recent sharp downward swing was checked yesterday under broad call buying and the position at the lose seemed steadier. A larger volume of butter was bought under the call than we have seen for some months past, and with Chicago prices fractionally higher a little more confident tone seemed in evidence.
Receipts, 12,743 packages. Market ruled firm with fairly satisfactory trading. Supplies of high grade fresh creamery would have run short but for the fact that considerable short held stock was withdrawn from the warehouses. No quotable change.
Receipts (Dec. 13), 6,451 packages, Market rules steady, with moderate inquiry and rather light offerings because of the delay in many shipments now in transit. No disposition to disturb voices, except possibly on some of the held goods below the finest. These were offered in instances 1cc lower.
Butter. Receipts, 10,572 packages. The market still presents a very unusual appearance. Supplies of fancy butter are still too liberal to clear as a result of the slack trading recently prevailing, and while street stocks are moderate and receipts somewhat lighter the weight of the excess stocks on hand is inducing a nervous and unsettled tone.
Receipts, 3,970 packages. Top grades of creamery advanced 1/4c. There was fairly active trading and a firm market. Some houses a little short of stock. Demand more general than it has been for some time past. Secondary grades moving a little better. Ladles and packing stock very firm.
The major importance of the black market in meats, poultry, eggs, butter, fruits and vegetables is emphasized in the New York City food survey prepared by Stanley Kreutzer for the New York Board of Trade.
Receipts: 11,946 packages. Market held firm on the finer grades of creamery with demand fairly good. Intermediate and lower grades steady. So many jobbers are now using storage stock that it relieves the situation somewhat. Several important sales of held butter at 45 45 1/2c. Ladies and packing stock firmer.
Louisville  Nashville sold yesterday ex the stock dividend declared some time ago, and in order to make up the difference in price and maintain the parity of The New York Times stock market averages New Orleans, Texas  Mexico was substituted for Pere Marquette.
The stock dividend of Coca-Cola necessitated a change in THE NEW YORK TIMES industrial averages. General Asphalt and Coca-Cola old have been dropped and Case Threshing Machine and General Railway Signal substituted.
The list of stocks from which THE NEW YORK TIMES Stock Market Averages is computed has been changed by the substitution of Atlantic Refining, Crucible Steel, Foundation Company, Great Western Sugar, Railway Steel Springs and United Drug for American Radiator, Bethlehem Steel, Famous Players, Standard Oil of California, Texas Gulf Sulphur and United States Cast Iron Pipe.
Receipts, 6,277 packages. Some shortage of fine fresh creamery, demand quite brisk and market decidedly firm, but without material change Possibly some qualities brought a little more money than heretofore, but operators were generally taking a conservative view because of the approaching holiday.
Nothing in the day-to-day news of the fortnight past has caused more widespread interest and comment than the rise on the Stock Exchange. The remark is sometimes elicited that absorption in a game of hazard, a gamble in paper values, does no credit to the general intelligence. But this view of the matter misses the point.
Receipts, 9,880 packages. Trade Somewhat disappointing and receivers had difficulty in maintaining the advance established on Thursday. Some surplus of fresh butter in many stores, weather mild and jobbers still pulling on their storage goods.
American Sugar replaces Consolidated Gas in the list of stocks from which THE NEW YORK TIMES stock market averages are computed, a change made necessary by the reduction in the quoted price of Endicott-Johnson shares, which were traded in yesterday, ex the 20 per cent, stock dividend.
Sixty-five college graduates from this country and abroad are to benefit from fellowships valued at $42,850 for study at the New York School of Social Work, Columbia University. Although it is a fact that these students may otherwise not have been able to enter on a social work career, the awards have a significance beyond their monetary value.
P E Fitzpatrick repts NYS Dems plan drive to set up NYS Comm on Aged Persons to plan aid; urges other steps
sees $12 million deficit, fiscal '50, rept to com; sees further cost rise, fiscal '51; sees over 380,000 getting aid, July, '51; table shows cost
US repr L K Hyde says time for mass emergency relief nears close, s, UN Soc Comm
NY Times survey shows aid reaches 10% of children in need; various countries rept on plight; feeding and other programs in different areas described
Govt asks IECF staff withdrawal; holds local personnel can distribute supplies; M Pate says 10-nation program com must authorize further supplies shipments
UN Assembly appeals for contributions; avoids fund termination issue; Mrs Roosevelt hails fund work; says permanent needs must be determined by Ecosoc global study; s seen indicating US opposition to fund continuation as permanent agency
Dr E M Burns warns unions welfare gains threaten pub aid; urges better aid; Dir J M Hoey and Deputy Comr Potter on role of pub depts
NYS moves to dissolve Christian Theol Coll, charged with being mail-order diploma mill; degrees reptd 'sold' for $1 to $75; pres Rev Dr W De Jesus gets show-cause order; Atty Gen Goldstein comments
Youth Consultation Service and State Child Welfare Bd maintain home, Newark, to aid readjustment of teen-age girls from broken homes
repts caseload rose 719, Oct, despite drop in home relief cases; Repr Marcantonio scores payment cut
BUFFALO, Nov. 17 -- A compresensive survey of the people in New York State who make up the home relief caseload is being undertaken by the State Department of Social Welfare, Alden E. Bevier, administrative staff officer of the department, made known today.
Estimate Ed approves $391,000 to add 269 to staff; approves 10-yr lease on new bldg; Budget Dir Patterson recommendations
Answering Mayor O'Dwyer's assertion that Communists had a "stranglehold" on the city's Welfare Department, Representative Vito Marcantonio termed this yesterday a "red herring" the Mayor was using to cover up his own inadequacies.
Repr Marcantonio charges Mayor O'Dwyer and Comr Hilliard plan to cut relief allowance, NYC; warns on result
COLUMBUS, Ohio, Oct. 19 -- Scores of recommendations on health, economic conditions, community, education, family living and institutional and foster care came from the Closing session of the Protestant Conference on Child Welfare here today.
Vice Chmn Sharkey offers bill to waive residence requirements for soc investigators for Puerto Rican populated areas; welfare centers, E Harlem and Bklyn, planned
Greater NY Fund survey released; B J Black charges city is lax in correlating data on needs
ST. PAUL, Minn., Sept. 24 -- Too many "extravagant claims" are being made about the value of recreation in preventing juvenile delinquency, Ray Sorenson, an authority in the recreational field, warned today.
Comr Hilliard repts 800,000 NYC residents are 60 yrs old or over; reveals Welfare Dept plans to extend old age services to Bklyn to care for 300,000; Bklyn orgns back plan
Elizabeth, NJ, Comr Dowd sees Singer strike major factor in rise in aid costs; to ask more funds
Acting Comr Houston repts state and Fed reprs will study case records; denies state threatens to withhold funds
Welfare Dept charges Mrs C Rugbes with fraudulently taking aid; Magistrate H Bushel scores dept; charges large-scale abuses of relief
ICEF ex-official J S Gregory charges Cominform Communists seek to discredit Yugoslav distribution of ICEF aid
rept on '48 aid; 1 of 9 children noted as getting city care; Deputy Comr Potter comment on trends
survey; 2/3 of aid recipients reptdly suffer ailments; case of 'lady in mink' cited; rehabilitation urged
Although it is only in a tentative stage the limited program for work relief which is being considered by Welfare Commissioner Hilliard has already come under sharp attack from the Commerce and Industry Association. The association speaks of "shovel-leaning," of "leaf-raking," of "boondoggling."
Assemblyman Ostertag repts Special Legis Com on Soc Welfare studies extension of state aid to new fields; sees legis changing welfare pattern
GREAT issues confront the totalitarian nations. In each, one man makes the decisions. Great issues, too, confront the United States.
Welfare Dept drafts work relief program; Comr Hilliard to submit plan to NYS Soc Welfare Dept for approval; repts 1st project calls for 500 workers; sees aid roll drop
SAN FRANCISCO. VAST arid lands of the West, thirsting for thousands of years until man could get around to building dams and irrigation ditches, are to be hastened into productivity by American-born and alien Japanese uprooted from their coastal homes.
And now Japan....  The "tumult and the shouting dies," and today, tomorrow and for many tomorrows to come the nation must buckle down to the "work, work and more work," for which President Harry S. Truman pleaded in his V-E Day announcement.
State Sup Ct reverses decree ordering Shubert Lafayette Theatre, Detroit, to hire union musicians not needed
Every soldier in the Salvation Army is given something to do and he remains in good standing only so long as he does it. Soldiers in the Army serve God through helping their fellow men.
strike; co and union atty comment; pickets posted; State police join Groton police patrolling plant approaches; alcoholic beverages sale banned; State Mediation Bd-co execs conf; navy withholds comment
Although by May 1, 1945, two million veterans were out of service and they have had a year and a half in which to get on the rolls for the "readjustment allowance" of $20 a week, only 66,627 have drawn this check for the full year that it is legally available.
Three key men in the American war effort appeared before a committee of the Senate yesterday to discuss the problem of manpower as that problem shapes itself today, on the eve of the invasion of Western Europe and the launching of new and greater offensives in the Pacific.
Our forefathers regarded work as the chief secular object of man's existence. A gloomy economics reduced us to the status of animals, breeding to the limits of subsistence, struggling ever with the reluctant earth. By the sweat of our brows were we to gain our bread. If we did not plant we should not reap.
" LET your housework keep you fit instead of fatigued" is the advice physical education experts give to women whose manifold wartime duties have crowded regular exercise out of the weekly schedule.
In sending eager young men into a world disordered by clashing ideas and atrophied by enforced idleness it is hard to strike the right note of high courage. Baccalaureate advice this year tends to become a little bewildered or downright gloomy.
When my loaded wheelbarrow tipped over one day I decided something better was called for, so I bought a child's express wagon. We have hauled just about everything in this wagon. Flats and pots ride securely. Loam, earth, compost, manure, even mixed concrete go right into the steel body.
The First Session of the Eightieth Congress comes to an end with a Democratic President and a Republican House and Senate deadlocked on important domestic issues, but with the bipartisan foreign policy established during war days still pretty much intact. To be sure, it had some rather narrow squeaks.
In an advertisement published a few days ago General Motors Corporation gave the public an interim report on its war work. The dollar value of first-quarter deliveries this year was nearly five times that of a year ago. This is good news at a time when every clock-tick counts.
It is a fine thing that men at the lathe, drill, press or stamping machine, or those putting things together on assembly and sub-assembly lines, who have ideas for improving the processes at which they work should receive conspicuous recognition for putting them to use.
RECENT press reports of human achievements re  quiring the patience of a latter-day Job overwhelm the thoughtful mind with admiration. At the same time, it must be admitted, they may arouse in the cynic the question that plagued Lucretia P. Hale's little Peterkin: "But what good came of it at last?"
LIFE among the playwrights, life among their works: Somewhere knocking around Broadway is a new script by A. E. Thomas, last represented on The Street by last season's "Merely Murder." The new one: simply "Palace."
General GRANT'S well-remembered adjuration, "Let us have peace," was never more appropriate than at the present moment.
For at least ten years the deteriorating effects of unemployment on health and morale have been recognized in England. We are beginning to note similar conditions here. In the address of Dr. PARRAN, State Commissioner of Health, he gives a timely warning against relief without work.
For the sixth consecutive month both employment and payrolls in American factories increased in September. This is shown by the indices of the Federal Bureau of Labor Statistics. In March employment was estimated at 55.1, on a scale with the average for the full year 1926 reckoned at 100.
GEORGE MIDDLETON has written a new play, and this being a Presidential year, it is about politics. "The Next Answer," he calls it, the story of a couple of Senators who seek the Presidential nomination.
Mr. LAWSON PURDY has stated the problem of unemployment relief for New York City during the Winter as it should be stated. Along with the magnitude of the need he cites the resources available.
This country has seen queer fish in the office of Chairman of the National Committee, but never one before quite like Secretary WORK. He was chosen by Mr. HOOVER as presumably a miracle of efficiency in this campaign where everything is to be standardized and waste ...
The report of Chairman JONES is arresting. Since its beginning in February, 1932, the RFC has authorized nearly $9,000,000,000 of loans and other advances and actually disbursed $6,848,000,000 of them. Its report divides these advances into thirty different classes.
President ROOSEVELT made it clear last week that despite the situation created by another decision of the Supreme Court adverse to the New Deal there remain only two measures on which the Administration will insist that Congress act before adjournment. One of these is the Tax Bill and the other the Relief Bill.
The Wets, especially the Democratic Wets, won three famous victories in the Assembly on Monday. They forced out of the Judiciary Committee and advanced to third reading a bill asking Congress to submit the repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment to a national Constitutional Convention.
As Congress has passed successive measures for aids to recovery, there has been the usual disposition to dispute over the question who deserves the credit for them. Various Democratic leaders have challenged the claims of the friends of the President that he is entitled to the palm.
One opportunity open to Congress at this session has been permitted to go begging. Congress might well have taken advantage of an "off" year in national politics and an improved business outlook in order to go back over the record of its many enactments at recent sessions and perfect those measures which were adopted under presssure.
AN impatient American feminist complained the other day, following a familiar-sounding speech in the French Senate  about "woman's place," that Freneh women are all traditional. They are.
Mayor WALKER has not yet finished, his first term, but is already laying down a program and establishing principles of conduct for his second. In his face-to-face talk with the heads of the city departments on Tuesday, as in his detailed address at the luncheon of the Merchants' Association yesterday, he ...
Ed on s by Mrs M Simkhovitch on changing functions of settlement houses, given at the Internatl Cong of Settlement Workers held at Paris
The train of the tariff-raisers is whizzing along so fast that another attempt to glow up the speed has to be made.
NOW the situation is really serious. It was just a cricket war at first, but the flame from the Ashes has fired jolly old England to a move that may have fearful consequences all over the world in all fields of sport. The bad news from London is quoted directly as follows:
Sir JAMES BARRIE'S rectorial address at St. Andrews was a characteristic blend of whimsicality and seriousness. While in his sober vein, he extolled to his undergraduate audience the pleasures of labor--provided it is congenial and fruitful.
President ALEXANDER of the National Bank of Commerce tells the homely and hard truth about the economic situation. Workers must accommodate themselves to the changed conditions.
At last, contrary to the precedents and many predictions, the Illinois Senate has passed the House bill repealing the State prohibition law and search and seizure act. It has been the habit to put such a measure ...
Assoc Blind to sponsor exhibit and sale of work at Women's Internatl Exposition of Arts and Industries, NYC
In an editorial on freedom and labor THE NEW YORK TIMES asserts that the right to work is an accepted principle in liberal democratic countries. I beg to differ. We do not have a constitutional or legal right to work. To have a right one has a claim against somebody in the event that the "right" is violated.
LENIN'S letter to the All Russian Labor Federation sounds like the Sunday school song of a generation ago which sought to encourage industrious habits among the young, though its ...
If jealous American frowns could have killed the League of Nations, it would have been dead long ago. Our State Department has a chill when  ever the postman brings in a letter from the League Secretariat. Mention the word League to a Senator and he shoots out a basilisk glance.
The New York State Conference on Social Work holds its forty-ninth annual meeting at a time when it becomes ever more important to define more exactly, if that is possible, the role that government and private agencies shall play in meeting the world's and the individual's needs.
WASHINGTON, Nov. 13 (AP) -- The War Labor Board today directed striking supervisory employes in Paterson and Wood-Ridge, N.J., plants to return to work immediately and settle a union recognition dispute by "peaceful procedures."
YOUNGSTOWN, Ohio, Nov. 10 -- This important steel district's "back-to-work" movement was in full swing today as five of its eight big steel plants were being rushed back into production.
For many years the public has been keenly aware of Protestant welfare activities and services in Greater New York. Most of this work stems through the Federation of Protestant Welfare Agencies, Inc., of 122 East Twenty-second Street, New York 10, which coordinates this charitable activity.
Construction begun on 109th Av and Union Hall St, Queens, and Lewis Av and Decatur St, Bklyn, areas
LAKE SEBAGO, N.Y., Sept. 3 -- The N.Y.U. football squad had its first taste of contact work in a three-hour drill today which also included assaults on the charging machine and tackling dummy. In the afternoon the group practiced punting, forward passing and new formations.
"Welfare" is a word of hazy connotation in the minds of most people. It includes anything that an altruistic person may desire for somebody else.
N Y C dress industry workers to adopt work hrs stagger system plan to ease traffic rush
LONDON, Nov. 8 -- Preparatory work on the proposed North Atlantic defense pact between the United States and Canada and five nations of Western Europe was reported today to have been undertaken by the permanent commission of the Brussels Treaty powers in London.
K F Lenroot says 3,000,000 will be in war work in Summer; warns on unregulated hrs effect on health
ALBANY, Sept. 28 -- Only about 300 prisoners in two New York institutions, Clinton and Auburn, are actively engaged in producing material for the war effort. Commissioner Lyons hopes, however, that several contracts now under consideration will come through shortly, when it will be possible to use the work of about 2,000 prisoners.
LAKE SEBAGO, N.Y., Sept. 15 -- N.Y. U.'s final week at its football training camp will be given over to rest and contemplation, if today's activities are any indication. Coach Mal Stevens devoted the morning and afternoon drills to instruction in fundamentals and a review of the past fortnight's work.
US Employment Service, Pub Welfare Dept and NYS Vocational Rehabilitation Bur study physically handicapped on relief rolls possible use to meet labor shortage
Probably a majority of the inhabitants of New York City would have opposed the State prohibition laws, but those laws are now on the statute books and they must be enforced. Commissioner ENRIGHT made a good start with sixteen arrests on the first day.
THIS is Artists Equity week in the galleries. Both as an earnest of the contemporary mood and vitality of American art and as an achievement in intelligent selection, the fourteen group shows assembled by members of the Association of Dealers in American Art are cause for jubilation.
How rapidly war pressures are opening up opportunities for technical work by women in the Army, the Navy and other agencies is indicated in a preliminary survey made by a new committee operating under the auspices of the National Roster of Scientific and Specialized Personnel. Unfortunately, women are not being trained to use these opportunities.
WILKES-BARRE, Pa., Jan. 17 -- Demands of the War Labor Board and the United Mine Workers failed tonight to end a dues revolt in the Northern anthracite field, but the threat of a general strike tomorrow to force an increase in wages was removed.
I should like to offer this comment on your editorial of March 30 criticizing the bill now before Governor Dewey which provides for the reorganization of the State Department of Public Works.
The chairman of the War Manpower Commission, Mr. McNutt, announces that within two weeks he will send a detailed legislative program to the President to provide for compulsory labor service in wartime. He will ask for power to require a man to remain on a job or to transfer to another one.
Teapot Dome seems likely to cast its shadow over the courts for the Lord knows how many years yet. In June a Federal District Judge in Wyoming sustained the oil land lease to the Sinclair people which the Government holds was fraudulently negotiated. After more than three months the Government has filed its appeal to the United States Circuit Court of Appeals.
In a letter to THE NEW YORK TIMES Walter J. Ruthenburg stated his determination to regroove his own tires because the Conservation Bureau forbade tire-repair people to do the job for him.
A San Francisco judge has ruled that labor unions have a right to refuse to use labor-saving mechanical devices. Dismissing anti-trust indictments against seventy-eight persons, contractors and labor unions, Judge A.F. St. Sure has upheld a labor union's contention that painting with spray guns would cut down available work for its members.
MEMBERS of the New York Art Directors Club are giving us glimpses of the art they themselves like to create off duty. Although most of their pictures are doubtless painted on Sundays and holidays, it would of course be a mistake to speak of them as "Sunday painters" in any sense having "primitive" connotations.
Drs Cori win '47 Nobel med prize for isolating phosphorylase which starts process of changing starch to sugar in body
Dr J A Avrack to supervise new underwriting div; J Sheehan to head domestic and C Leaf foreign underwriting
PARIS, July 22 -- Coordination with the United Nations and other international organizations was approved today toy the economic conference's executive committee | and submitted to the cooperation committee for adoption.
IN more than one respect the career of WILLIAM DE MORGAN is unique in literature. Without attempting to deter  mine his rank among writers of fiction-- ardent admirers regard him as second to none in the art of story-telling, while such critical Journals as The London Times
LAKE PLACID, N.Y., Sept. 30 -- If American youth has softened and is being "mollycoddled," the chief responsibility lies with parents and schools, the State Congress of Parents and Teachers was told today by Lewis A. Froman, dean of Millard Fillmore College, University of Buffalo.
About 1,300 Itals captured in N Africa arrive, Bombay, from Central India internment camps to work
Eighteen hundred A. F. of L. painters, employed by 300 independent contractors in Manhattan, the Bronx and Staten Island were directed yesterday not to report for work until the contractors had signed agreements with their union, District Council 9 of the Brotherhood of Painters and Decorators.
At its maximum, during the last year, the WPA has had 3,350,000 workers on its rolls; the number has now been reduced to 2,800,000. For the next fiscal year that begins in July, President Roosevelt estimated in a message to Congress last week, an average of slightly more than 2,000,000 persons will need work relief.
Widelitz  Co. of 2112 Broadway has expanded its management department, which now is under the direction of David B. Widelitz, assisted by Joseph Panman. Benjamin Widelitz heads the brokerage department, and Jacob Widelitz and his son, Irwin, are in charge of the general insurance division.
A HISTORY OF WOMEN IN MEDICINE, From the Earliest Times to the Beginning of the Nineteenth Century. By Kate Campbell Hurd-Mead, M. D. 569 pp. 30 Illustrations. Haddam, Conn.: The Haddam Press. $6.
The current exhibition of the work of Harrison Cady, at Macbeth's, may well come with something of a shock to those who have known this artist for many years as a contributer of illustrations to magazines and -- more, widely and specifically -- as the illustrator of Thornton W. Burgess's nature stories and the graphic creator of Peter Rabbit.
THE suite from Aaron Copland's score for the Martha Graham ballet "Appalachian Spring" has been recorded  for Victor by Serge Koussevitzky and the Boston Symphony Orchestra (Victor, DM-1046, three ...
BENITO MUSSOLINI, the new Italian President of the Council, in keeping with the character of the man and of the revolution which he created, inspired and made successful, took over the portfolios of Interior and of Foreign Affairs. He has made a good beginning in each. For the first he has elaborated a program ...
ROME, Feb. 28 -- Bulgaria will join the Three-Power Pact in Vienna tomorrow, it was learned today, and with this step the Axis will have completed the diplomatic work preliminary to its forthcoming military strategy in the Balkans. Bulgaria's adherence, it was pointed out, rounds off the isolation of Greece on the continent and brings the Axis forces to her northeastern frontiers.
Speaking last night in Battle Creek ECA Administrator Paul Hoffman asserted "in all candor, and at the risk of being undiplomatic, that our problem is not only to get Europe on its own feet, but off our backs." We want Europe on its own feet because a prosperous Europe is essential to our security and well-being.
The Bolahevist attack on Persia. which by Mr. TCHITCHERIN'S own admission follows closely on a Persian note offering friendly relations, but relations based on respect by the Russians of Persian independence and territorial integrity, calls for action by the League of Nations if anything ...
The number of persons reported to have been executed by order of the Cheka in Russia is incredible. The dispatch from Riga to The London Times states that the figures given are "official Bolshevist figures." The total number so reported is 1,766,118.
PAGO BAY, Guam, Aug. 1 (Delayed) -- Engineers following Seventy-seventh Division infantry have used shovels and bulldozers to widen carabao trails into motor roads and cut broad highways through head-high swordgrass and even across mountains where only jeeps could go yesterday.
The ancient Greek leagues of nations, or tribes, took their name "amphictyonic" from a word which meant "neighbors." The present League of Nations, whose Third Assembly has just adjourned, is quite the most neighborly Institution that we have ...
It is announced in Washington that President HARDING has canceled all his speaking engagements for the next six weeks and will make no others. He finds that his executive duties will demand all his time and strength. In addition, he is the titular leader of his ...
The battleground has shifted since woman was trying to convince the world that her place was got necessarily in the home.
Thursday Mayor La Guardia took a day or part of a day off the premises. Overtime worker, undertime sleeper, he was up at 5:30; a rural matutinal hour, "when the zephyrs and the heifers their odoriferous breaths compare."
LOS ANGELES, Dec. 6 (AP) -- Paul Gregory, president of Local 37, United Weldors, Cutters and Helpers, said today that he had information that the A.F. of L. would try Monday to bar welders from shipyards for non-payment of dues.
Lr says abolition of all home work is only way to keep children out of industry
By a vote of better than two to one in the House on May 7 and nearly three to one in the Senate yesterday Congress made it possible for the President to put back to work about a million tons of unemployed alien shipping now tied up in American harbors. To the numerous vessels already taken in custody may now be added the French vessels upon which American Coast Guards were suddenly placed last night.
In today's TIMES appears Mr. HARRY HUBBARD's conclusion of his discussion of how far modern wealth is the result of the "exploitation" of the poor. There was need of such a discussion. No wealth is more disliked than that of the war profiteers.
THERE used to be a time when the stage was pointed out as the road  to wickedness, but nowadays, the movies get the blame. When Nellie Green left home in the old days  it was darkly intimated that she had gone to join the chorus.
The Judiciary Committee of the Tennessee House of Representatives did a good day's work when it pigeonholed an extraordinary bill approved by the State Senate a fortnight ago. This bill proposed to fine, and to expel permanently from the ranks of Tennessee journalism, editors and publishers who permitted the publication in their editorial columns of "any untruth of any kind or character" about any person.
STOCKHOLM, Sweden, Nov. 17 -- The North African issue involving General Charles de Gaulle and Admiral Francois Darlan was being built up today by Nazi propagandists into an Anglo-American difference of opinion.
The transportation jam caused by the national maritime strike and the New York trucking strike began to break up last week.
More than four months after the German surrender and nearly a month after the end of the Japanese war the blight of censorship still keeps us from full knowledge of what is going on in the world today. C.L. Sulzberger, surveying Europe for this newspaper ...
US Thunderbolts destroy 21 Ger tanks and damage 6 out of 35 preparing to attack US lines in St Lo sector
DETROIT. TRAFFIC conditions in Detroit will be little changed this year, according to Edward A. Mitte, director of traffic. The major improvement in the year just closed was the widening of Gratiot Avenue, one of the principal traffic arteries of the city.
The action of the Board of Estimate in executive session Friday indicates that the plan of the Citizens' Union, approved by the City Club and many citizens of high standing and large experience, to provide employment for the unemployed by beginning work on rations deferred city improvements, already provided for, will be carried out.
Communists in New York City's public colleges and high schools run about three to the hundred, and through innocent-appearing subsidiary organizations influence about ten students out of every hundred. Such is the gist of the report of the Coudert committee, as shown in two sections released this week.
Still in the holiday season, the gifts to the Hundred Neediest Cases Fund have now surpassed even the large total received last year. This should be thought of not as a new ...
LONDON. THE London Zoo is the only British institution  which has managed to adjust itself without difficulty to the new petrol-rationing scheme.
Brit Cabinet hears his rept on outlook for Germany's return to League and revival of disarmament negotiations
New York has seldom been more aroused than over the killing and wounding of children in East 107th Street last July. Mass meetings were held. The police were criticized...
"The Republican Congress will un"doubtedly pass new tariff laws," says Representative JOSEPH W. FORDNEY, the new Chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, in a symposium conducted by Everybody's Magazine on the tasks before the new Congress. We may safely take his word for it.
PHILADELPHIA, Jan. 9. -- With indoor rowing in full swing today for the first time. Coach Rusty Callow of Pennsylvania announced that 250 candidates had enrolled for the varsity, freshman and lightweight crews. This is nearly thirty more than alst year and sets a new record for the university in the sport.
EN ROUTE WITH PRESIDENT ROOSEVELT TO WASHINGTON, Aug. 8 (AP). -- After President Roosevelt left Rochester to drive along the government's mammoth construction project on the Upper Mississippi River, he inspected the progress of the new nine-foot channel opening the Mississippi to navigation to Minneapolis, and at Lake City dedicated the new city dock in a short talk over loud speakers.
BALTIMORE. BALTIMORE city and adjacent counties during the past six months have embarked on a traffic improvement program involving the expenditure of approximately $10,000,000. The improvements now under way include the new 35-mile, 125-foot highway between Baltimore and Aberdeen on the main north-south artery, the Bath Street Viaduct, the Choptank River bridge and the Baltimore-Conowingo boulevard road.
editorial on protests from England and France concerning Carranza's decree, which amounts to practical seizure of National Bank of Mexico and Bank of London and Mexico
When the beneficent work of the Americanized Public Health Department in Haiti is contrasted with the inefficiency of its predecessor, in the days before intervention, it is not difficult to understand why the American doctors are popular.
IN the wake of the waves that telecast the Republican convention, float new problems for the politicians. Just as they were  faced with the revolutionary influences of new fangled radio contraptions in the early Twenties, now television adds another cardinal ingredient to politics--sight.
AT the Weyhe Gallery, 794 Lexington Avenue, paintings and drawings by Jean Negulesco, the Rumanian painter, is now being held. His work displays a wide range of subjects. In the exhibition are landscapes of the Riviera and Morocco. There are portraits of Richard Le Gallienne and of Marguerite Jamois (of the Studio Des Champs-Elysees) and his wife.
RUNNING down parallel passages is a species of literary detective work, with the result that the accused is haled into court charged with plagiary. Somehow, plagiary hunters have missed one interesting example, that of comparing the soul of a man shining out of his eyes, to a light inskle an alabaster vase.
It is a pity that "Two-Gun" CROWLEY, the "cop-killer," should have compelled so dramatic a capture by the New York police. But he had barricaded himself in a room and was armed. The only way to arrest him without sacrificing the ...
UERMWA Local 4 urges members to begin veterans caravan to Washington to back '52-20' unemployment benefits extension
Ratifying the moratorium by Congress was conspicuously a thing which, if 'twere done, 'twere well 'twere done quickly, This was so obvious from the first that a great rsajority of both houses of Congress had agreed in advance to validate the President's action of last June.
Thousands of men will be seeking jobs when the war is over. Many of them will come from the armed services. Many others will be left unemployed by the transition to peace production. And youngsters leaving school must begin earning.
Luther Huston's article on the Presidency in THE TIMES Magazine is very illuminating. May I, however, point out an error. Mr. Huston states: "In the field of legislation his [the President's] powers are advisory and he can exercise authority over Congress only on extraordinary occasions."
A report has been made public by the War Contracts subcommittee of the Senate Military Affairs Committee proposing a new kind of Federal budget, a "job budget." The whole document is instructive because it accepts nearly all the popular economic slogans that have lately been drifting about in the air, and attempts to enact them all together in a single bill.
Yours Is My Heart, by F Lehar; R Tauber to return to cast after illness; por
CLUSTERED in front of a steamship pier on West Street in New York is a group of men discussing  something that appears to be of great interest to all of them.
In an all-out war we need more, not fewer, hard-boiled, tough, fighting generals. To crucify a general for telling off, even if physically, a soldier who seemingly exhibited cowardice is the worst sabotage that any Axis propaganda could possibly inflict on our armies.
The General Council of Britain's Trades Union Congress (T. U. C.) has refused to concur in the demands of some 5,000,000 trade unionists for immediate wage increases. In its annual report, just made public, the Council takes its stand beside Sir Stafford Cripps and the Labor Government on the question of wage policy.
In the two decades between the close of the last World War and the beginning of this one it was fashionable and smart to say that there was no such thing as a good war, and that one would go to jail before he would be drafted into the Army. There were many who said these things and meant them at the time.
On Tuesday, September 3, 1946, the floor of the New York Stock Exchange was swept, metaphorically speaking, by three tidal waves of selling. Nearly 3,000,000 shares of stock changed hands during the five hours of business, and when the statistics had been compiled at the end of the day they revealed that the market break had been the most severe in fifteen years.
WITH the brisk winds of Fall there has come the usual turnout of hopefuls of all ages who want to get into the business of radio. Just what their chances are may be gleaned from statistics prepared by Wynn Wright, NBC production manager, and his able aide, Betty Shay.
ON Sept. 16 of this year, after five and a half weeks of jobhunting on Broadway and a total of 344 calls upon 71 cast  ing officials, I decided to take stock of myself.
There is to be a hearing today before the Board of Estimate on the Allen Street widening. Some of those who read about it may remark, ...
TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES: Your editorial of July 8 favoring a proposed two-year job study in the city service does not state the issue in its entirety. May I add a few facts?
Ed on suggestion by Rev J McNeil that Scotchmen should have assisted Europeans in their war debt settlements with U S
When our men marched down those narrow English roads between the hedges and went aboard their ships on the night before D-day last June, they carried with them everything they needed to live and fight.
Mayor O'Dwyer's order for a survey leading to thorough revision of city civil service classifications and pay schedules constitutes recognition of a long-neglected and highly important problem. The need for such action has been admitted for many years, and the last authentic attempt at a general reclassification is said to have been made about thirty years ago.
In some respects, beset with political troubles and economic ills, Mr. HOOVER has disappointed those who voted for him in the belief that he would be quick and firm in dealing with all public matters. His failure to assume real leadership while the tariff bill was framing undoubtedly made that bad bill a worse one.
President Truman sounded the note upon his return from Potsdam. Travelers who have seen conditions in the war-devastated lands of Europe, Asia and the Pacific agree that the approaching winter will be the most critical in world history--a winter of starvation, destitution and disease.
The people of Yugoslavia are among those of our Allies who will suffer most from the winter
American Relief for Holland, a New York National War Fund agency, recently sent 422,159 pounds of relief supplies to the suffering Netherlanders. Emergency food packages, together with articles of clothing and household necessities, constituted the major part of the shipment.
PARIS (By Wireless). THE poilu bas donned his war harness again and he won't doff it until  after the victory parade, however long it may be delayed. He set out with stern mien and jaws clenched, but soon his old poilu spirit reasserted itself: he packed up his troubles in his kit bag and is now ready to take things as they come.
Ed, A job for the genteel, on her articles in Harper's, on responsibilities of refined middle class
" Safety Week," though but begun, will soon be over. It will have been worth while, as Mr. GARY said, if but a single life has been saved; and it would appear that several lives have already been saved. But there is reason to expect that it will have permanent...
The thing an unemployed worker wants most is a job. During most of the last eight years finding new jobs has been relatively easy. Now there are more people looking for jobs than there were yesterday. This situation confronts the public employment offices in New York and other industrial states with a challenge that they must be physically equipped to meet.
The Citizens Budget Commission has now completed publication of its report on five city departments, made at the request of Mayor O'Dwyer and with the helpful cooperation of city employes and business specialists. There is no question that the city will follow up the recommendations of this report, which sees the possibility ultimately -but not immediately -- of a $30,000,000 annual elimination of waste motion.
"A definite improvement in the employment situation" was reported last week by Secretary of Labor Perkins. Statistics compiled by her department showed that in July 40,000 factory workers returned to their jobs, causing a rise of 0.7 per cent in the employment index over June.
In landing the vanguard of an army at or near Narvik, the British Navy has completed a carefully planned operation which deserves to rank in skill with the battle against the Graf Spee. It seems to have combined daring with precise preparations--and without preparations, down to the smallest detail...
Mare Is naval ammunition depot personnel return to work after stoppage due to reluctance to handle explosives
In its recent annual report the Social Security Board recommended that unemployment insurance benefits should be liberalized and made to cover longer periods of a wage earner's idleness.
In reply to the proposal at London that UNO take action against the presence of British troops in the Netherlands East Indies, the Indonesian "Premier," Sutan Sjahrir, pleads for the British troops to stay. The reason he gives is highly illuminating of the ...
The American Federation of Labor in its forty-fifth annual convention has on its hands two problems, significantly contrasted. One is to bring arbitral reason and justice into the jurisdictional squabble in the building trades, which is causing vast losses to both employers and employed.
The Salvation Army maintains guidance, testing and placement services in the city through which, students, veterans and others seeking counsel receive aptitude tests and the services of a trained psychologist.
The roof of the twelve-story Y. W. C. A. Board Building, Fifty-second Street and Lexington Avenue, was insulated recently from machinery parked on the street.
Thirty-two Governors, from Maine to California, have joined with Governor Dewey in urging their constituents to support the final drive of the National War Fund, with the goal of $16,723,222 in New York City. Following are typical excerpts from their statements:
Sues Abendroth Bros alleging they failed to provide lifetime job as agreed in contract made in 1904 after he lost arm in foundry
The President's secretary says that Mr. Truman has made "very little progress" thus far in filling the membership of the five-man Atomic Energy Commission which was created by Congress at the last session.
Two things stand out as especially significant in the Government report on employment and payrolls in manufacturing industries last month. One is the striking reversal of a usual seasonal trend. Only twice during the decade from 1923 to 1932 inclusive did employment improve in June as compared with May, and in both cases the gain was merely nominal.
Officials forecast 2/3ds of those aided by work-relief will depend on new appropriations after July 1
Only the highest sense of public service could have persuaded Secretary of the Navy Forrestal to remain in the office he so successfully administered in the most critical period of our naval history. It is known that he intended to resign and return to business immediately after unification of the Navy...
FACTORY workers and craftsmen in industry are the new commuters. Between home and plant they often travel by automobile more than 100 miles a day. This fluid form of transportation is proving vital to the national defense manufacturing program, which thus draws personnel from an area of 100 miles around any plant.
When the Legislature adjourned on May 20, it left in the hands of the Governor 678 bills subject to the provision of the Constitution that "no bill shall become a law after the final adjournment of the Legislature unless approved by the Governor within thirty days after such adjournment."
The 2,000,000-ton merchant-shipping pool being assembled by the Maritime Commission to assist the British to victory will draw heavily on the lines operating in coastwise trade. That means that on top of all the extra freighting caused by the defense program much of the tonnage now moved along the coasts in ships must in the future go over the rails in trains and the highways in trucks.
Ocean County, N J, Bd of Freeholders asks assignment of reforestation men to strengthen N J coastline
IF you wanted a job in a motion picture studio, how many questions would you have to answer? How many trades, professions and vocations are needed steadily or intermittently in a modern cinema plant?
Housewives who work in offices, factories and shops are busy women, probably too occupied with their duties at home and outside it to give a thought to the forthcoming census. Miss MARY ANDERSON, chief of the Women's Bureau of the United States Department of Labor, does ...
MACHINES like tractors and power mowers free the home gardener from time and energy consuming chores, enabling him to turn his attention to those aspects of his hobby that provide him with the most enjoyment.
Elephants to stalk the streets, sandwich-man fashion, are in heavy demand these days in New York and other cities. Stand on a corner in Times Square in thought and a vast gray shadow may loom along the curb. The pachyderms not only promote shows and theatres but advertise all sorts of wares from shoes to sealing wax.
Persons eligible for pub jobs must get availability statement from present employer before they can get jobs
Private employment agencies line many midtown avenues and streets. All day long men and women in search of work stand before the ...
THESE are the days when nobody gets a really showy coat  of arms worked into the enduring stone of his architecture or into the weave and woof of  his window curtains unless he be a commercial concern or a hotel at privatest. So it is in commerce.
While Michael Curtiz, an expert in odd camera angles and compelling dissolves, has introduced some interesting protographic ideas in his latest production. "Good Time Charley," the story of this film teems with cheap sentiment and extravagant comedy. The incidents are handled in an extremely haphazard fashion, so that, in the circumstances, almost anything might happen. There is a fund of material in this subject, but little of it is effective. It is like using a bludgeon to bring tears and explosives to create laughter."Good Time Charley" is a story of an old tragedian who, like Job, is sorely tried. His wife is killed by a mercenary producing manager. He eventually loses his sight and his daughter becomes the unfortunate wife of the son of the man who is virtually her mother's murderer.This picture, with less detail and some true conception of story-telling, might have been an approach to "Debureau"; but it isn't. It is one of those films where the poor old man with a half-wit pal finds that the whole world is treading upon him. "Good Time Charley's" real name is Charles Keene. He is the type of actor dubbed a ham.In the early episodes this production looks promising, but after Keene's wife dies, the narrative is told in a childish fashion. Apparently, Rosita Keene, beloved by Charles, her father, also adores the old man. Nevertheless she succeeds in keeping out of his way when she is most needed and he is able to deceive her into the belief that he is a whale of a success on the stage. Poor, old Charles is saving up his money, or that of Bill Collins, his faithful pal, because he has been told that an operation costing $1.000 will give him back his sight. Just when he has about that sum. Rosita appears and tells her father that she is sorely in need of funds to go abroad. So Charles gives his daughter the currency that was stored in his abode.Subsequently the old actor learns that John Hartwell was responsible for Elaine Keene's death. So you have a sequence wherein Charles goes to Hartwell's office. He is not able to see the man he wants to shoot, and he is not even given credit for being able to hear Hartwell's movements. Excitement or some acute stage of hatred eventually causes the blurred form of Hartwell to appear before the veteran actor in a mirror. Charles believes that he is pointing his pistol at Hartwell and he pulls the trigger only to hear a crash of glass.This scene is well acted, but poorly directed. Warner Oland gives a splendid interpretation of Charles Keene, both before and after he is attacked by blindness. Clyde Cook has some amusing tricks, but most of them are terribly out of place in this type of yarn. Helene Costello does fairly well as Rosita and Montague Love is competent as John Hartwell.The Movietone news reel is exceptionally interesting. In one stretch the Prince of Wales is heard and seen addressing a gathering. His voice is not only clear, but it would easily be recognized as that of the Prince. Another episode deals with the recent Yale-Princeton football game and in this reproduction one gains a vivid impression of the excitement in the Yale Bowl.While Michael Curtiz, an expert in odd camera angles and compelling dissolves, has introduced some interesting protographic ideas in his latest production. "Good Time Charley," the story of this film teems with cheap sentiment and extravagant comedy. The incidents are handled in an extremely haphazard fashion, so that, in the circumstances, almost anything might happen. There is a fund of material in this subject, but little of it is effective. It is like using a bludgeon to bring tears and explosives to create laughter."Good Time Charley" is a story of an old tragedian who, like Job, is sorely tried. His wife is killed by a mercenary producing manager. He eventually loses his sight and his daughter becomes the unfortunate wife of the son of the man who is virtually her mother's murderer.This picture, with less detail and some true conception of story-telling, might have been an approach to "Debureau"; but it isn't. It is one of those films where the poor old man with a half-wit pal finds that the whole world is treading upon him. "Good Time Charley's" real name is Charles Keene. He is the type of actor dubbed a ham.In the early episodes this production looks promising, but after Keene's wife dies, the narrative is told in a childish fashion. Apparently, Rosita Keene, beloved by Charles, her father, also adores the old man. Nevertheless she succeeds in keeping out of his way when she is most needed and he is able to deceive her into the belief that he is a whale of a success on the stage. Poor, old Charles is saving up his money, or that of Bill Collins, his faithful pal, because he has been told that an operation costing $1.000 will give him back his sight. Just when he has about that sum. Rosita appears and tells her father that she is sorely in need of funds to go abroad. So Charles gives his daughter the currency that was stored in his abode.Subsequently the old actor learns that John Hartwell was responsible for Elaine Keene's death. So you have a sequence wherein Charles goes to Hartwell's office. He is not able to see the man he wants to shoot, and he is not even given credit for being able to hear Hartwell's movements. Excitement or some acute stage of hatred eventually causes the blurred form of Hartwell to appear before the veteran actor in a mirror. Charles believes that he is pointing his pistol at Hartwell and he pulls the trigger only to hear a crash of glass.This scene is well acted, but poorly directed. Warner Oland gives a splendid interpretation of Charles Keene, both before and after he is attacked by blindness. Clyde Cook has some amusing tricks, but most of them are terribly out of place in this type of yarn. Helene Costello does fairly well as Rosita and Montague Love is competent as John Hartwell.The Movietone news reel is exceptionally interesting. In one stretch the Prince of Wales is heard and seen addressing a gathering. His voice is not only clear, but it would easily be recognized as that of the Prince. Another episode deals with the recent Yale-Princeton football game and in this reproduction one gains a vivid impression of the excitement in the Yale Bowl.
Repr Cox says purpose of his amendment to Vinson priorities bill is to freeze Stettinius in job
DETROIT, March 24 (AP) -- Miss Genevieve Samp, whose suspension from work in a war plant here has been brought to the attention of Congress, has been out of her job for the last two weeks in accord with procedure under the union shop contract of the National Stamping Company with the United Automobile Workers, C.I.O.
IT seems strange at first. A dull blank feeling enshrouds me when the first shock of losing it comes. Then I begin to look about me. As I am not in immediate need of funds, I can afford to do this. In the first place, there's staying at home instead of scurrying out to be at the office on time.
The census report should not pass into history without a word in praise of the fine service rendered by the Governor's special Commissioner, RANDALL J. LE BOEUF Jr. A. young man and comparatively inexperienced...
WASHINGTON, April 25 -- The job of the railroads in wartime is to keep man power moving to battlefronts and factories and to move from factory or farm to consumption points all the goods soldiers and sailors need to fight with and civilians need to sustain them for their part in the war effort.
John J. McQuade, who had completed fifty years as an employe of Brooklyn Supreme Court, received a leather-bound scroll bearing more than 300 signatures in commemoration of the event at a ceremony in Justice Michael F. Walsh's part of the Supreme Court.
THE telephone rings at an office of the United States Employment Service. The personnel director of an aircraft plant wants to know whether he can get thirty airplane woodworkers in a hurry. The manager of the regional office, without even consulting his files, knows the answer.
W George, Hague supporter, apptd to specially created job of counsel to Sheriff W J McGovern; gets fee for prosecuting Longo and another Hague foe
Maj. Gen. Clare Chennault, commandinig general of the Fourteenth United States Air Force in China, now is busy ...
Printing Pressmen's Union protests to NYC Pubs Assn against NY World-Telegram plan to cut pressroom force
The body of John Yousak, 38 years old, of 85 Ridge Street, was found at 9:40 A.M. yesterday hanging by a piece of sash cord in the apartment he shared with a friend, Sigmund Sheron.
J W Nolan resigns as Mayor for paying job as Supt of Sts, Sewers and Licenses; H A Epstein apptd Acting Mayor
Mayor O'Dwyer's announcement that a two-year survey will be made looking to reclassification of civil service jobs and revision of pay scales constitutes recognition of one of the essentials of good government. The Mayor took a preliminary step in this direction last December when he designated the Budget Director and the president of the Municipal Service Commission to make such a study, in six months.
PROFESSOR JASTROW'S "Book of Job" is as daring an essay in the higher criticism of the Bible as any one  has attempted.
Minnesota: Atty Gen J A A Burnquist holds veteran's widow or disabled veteran's wife entitled to State employment preference
It was natural for speakers to emphasize the harmony between public housing and private enterprise when Gerard Swope, new chairman of the New York City Housing Authority, was ...
War Dept awards job to dredge and remove rocks from Bayonne, N J S I channel
One or the most interesting points in connection with Stuart Walker's production of "The Book of Job" is that, so far as the records show, it marks the first time that the strains of ancient Hebrew music have been heard in a Broadway playhouse. To heighten the authenticity of the rendition of the melodies, the main instruments used in the orchestration arranged for the production are harps.
TO sum it all up in the words of one of the principals involved: "You know something? Now all the agents shave in the morning! It's a fact!"
General MacArthur's appointment of Gen. Joseph W. Stilwell to command the Tenth Army answers a question that was raised when "Vinegar Joe," forced out of China, was named chief of Army Ground Forces. The Ground Force Command, a domestic training job on a dwindling front, could not con-...
License examinations for first assistants in high schools will be given today at the Julia Richman High School, Second Avenue and Sixtyseventh Street, it was announced yesterday at the Board of Education.
CHICAGO, Jan. 16 -- Executives of the National Football League laid the groundwork today for creation of a commissionership to govern their fast-growing sport.
Explains remarks on making membership in a Repub club a prerequisite for obtaining job in Dept of Pub Welfare
C W Held, Maritime Comm inspector, and 4 others indicted; Job-selling and Modern Shipbldtg School operation as cloak charged, Long Beach, Calif
Receives suspended sentence on conviction of conducting illegal employment agency, following complaint of J H Schade
Again "Job enters." In the latest issue of The Independent, in an article entitled "The Political Crisis in England." Justin McCarthy quotes the words, "by the skin of the teeth," half apologizing therefor by adding, "to use the somewhat vulgar old phrase." Years ago I heard a mother reprove her daughter for using the same words, saying: "Don't indulge in slang, my dear."
B Kotkin held on charges of operating agency without a license and selling 3 permits for work on Manhattan Beach Coast Guard station project, Bklyn
CHICAGO, Feb. 25 -- Woodruff Randolph, president of the International Typographical Union, threatened today to bring "chaos" to the commercial printing industry in Chicago unless the employers acceded to the union demands.
Governor-elect Dewey has made a promising start toward carrying out his campaign pledge to put the energies and resources of this State more effectively into the war effort. In the face of a national manpower crisis and a national need for full production, New York City, the greatest industrial city in the nation, has large unemployment, idle factories and idle machines, while many of its small businesses face the threat of extinction.
Reinstatement of W P Hastings, who charged discharge from Dept of Investigation and Accounts was illegal because he was veteran, denied
Support of civil service amendment proposal asked by H E Kaplan, sec of Natl Civil Service Reform League
High Comr McCloy to invite Gen Chuikov and other USSR officials to New Yrs reception, Berlin
Cabinet approves bill to amnesty certain collaborators still in prison; Min Teitgen repts on number convicted; denies many were summarily executed
High Comr McCloy defends US troops against increasing charges of brutality and rowdyism; sees Gers provacateurs in most instances
Deputy Min Zarubin (USSR) says further treaty decisions depend on outcome of bilateral USSR-Austrian talks on USSR claims for services since '45
Chancellor Figl asks Allied Council to permit police use of arms against forces caught in criminal acts; request seen provoked by crimes in USSR zone
Zarubin refuses to separate talks from treaty conf; Austrian proposal to settle claims unanswered; USSR services seen negligible; speculation on delaying tactics
Brit soldier who deserted yr ago repts from USSR sector, Berlin, that he plans to stay in USSR zone
USSR-licensed news agency repts US Sgt Basauri renounces citizenship and seeks asylum in E Ger; USAF spokesman comments
USSR zone Gers flock to US zone to buy and sell supplies as USSR opens border near Coburg for few hrs
BERLIN, Nov. 7 -- No Russian move in Eastern Europe has excited so much speculation here as the installation of Marshal Rokossovsky as Poland's Minister of Defense.
US hdqrs reptdly advises Jap newspapers and publishers it would be 'unwise' to publish F Reel book on Yamashita trial for war crimes
Brit Comr of Hamburg Dr Dunlop defends dismantling of Deutsche Werft shipyd; denies move will raise unemployment; McCloy reveals US Amb Douglas lr denying Brit protests against McCloy statements
US Sen subcom charges use of Malmedy war crimes case to discredit US Mil Govt; links some adverse witnesses and US Council for War prevention; urges Defense Dept probe; urges limiting Mil Govt jobs to citizens of 10 yrs standing
All-Ger People's Council com to form Govt under Const; changes council to People's Chamber; scores West; Berlin Neues Deutschland offers platform
W J Oelsner and P H Sellers arrive, US; score press repts on their acct of treatment by USSR but fall to deny abuses
freed; rept they were charged with spying; describe treatment; admit they were warned not to enter USSR zone; illus
Mil Govt in W Ger ends as Allied High Comm is formally constituted, Bonn; Comm receives Chancellor Adenauer and other W Ger Cabinet members; holds 1st meeting; moves to liquidate Joint Export-Import Agency
With the end of military government in Germany, an Occupation Statute, administered by an Allied High Commission, takes the place of a peace treaty in defining relations between the Western Powers and the German Federal Republic. The authority of the new state extends over less than two-thirds of the reduced territories left to Germany after the war.
10 Jap soldiers sentenced Manila, for cannibalism, rape and murder, central Mindanao, after war end; 4 others sentenced
Lt Gen Lukyanchenko denies USSR held Sienkiewicz; asks US to free 3 USSR soldiers; Maj Gen Hays lr to Lt Gen Dratvin protests alleged inhuman treatment of Sienkiewicz; denies US holds Russians; excerpts
US Recruit Sienkiewicz and 3 Brit soldiers, held for mos by USSR for crossing into USSR zone, escape to W Ger; charge Russians interrogated and mistreated them; 4th Brit soldier and 1 French civilian, freed by escapees, are missing; Brit Maj Gen Bourne asks probe by Col Yelizarov
C H Collisson dismissed from US decartelization branch, Ger, by High Comr McCloy despite grievance com plea for reinstatement; comments; case revd
US mil command plans combined Army, Navy and Air Force staff; Brig Gen Lanham stresses air power
Ex-Min to Canada F Nemec scores charges that US, GB and wartime Govt-in-Exile sabotaged '44 Slovak uprising; blames failure on lack of USSR support, lr
pledges adherence to Howley policies; names deputy W T Babcock dir of US Mil Govt office in city
All Germans should have learned by this time what a wicked and destructive thing nazism was. They can see its physical effects in their own divided and occupied country, in the ruins of their cities, in their own war dead and crippled. They can feel its moral effects in the ghastly burden of guilt which hangs over all who were in any way responsible for the Hitler regime.
Mil mission chief in French zone of Ger, Col J Jarczembski, flees to Switzerland; Govt to ask extradition
US Sec Acheson scores USSR for holding W Oelsner and P Sellers; bars holding USSR refugee Lt Barsov as hostage
Gen Robertson on continuing effects; holds W Ger Govt, city adm and High Comrs responsible for stabilization
adm reorgn speeded; personnel to be cut to 1,400; several divs to be merged; need for Deputy High Comr stressed
Maj Gen Hays says USSR refuses to free youths or permit US officers visits; pledges to search US zone for deserters
Bratislava Pravda charges US, GB and wartime Govt-in-Exile sabotaged '44 Slovak uprising against Nazis; Min Nosek says USSR and Communists backed rising
US youths W Oelsner and P Sellers reptd held, USSR zone; USSR asks US to return 3 deserters, implying simultaneous release of youths; denies they are hostages; US denies sheltering deserters; youths kin comment
Brit mil police, Vienna, save Austrian, seized by 4 USSR soldiers for spying for US, after mob attacks Russians
US High Comr McCloy sees no rush of foreign investors; sought sanctioning of private investing, Washington
US High Comr McCloy admits many Nazi followers hold pub posts but sees major Nazis punished; doubts nazism revival
BERLIN, July 25 -- The Third Battalion of the Sixteenth Infantry Regiment, which has been the backbone of the United States Army's garrison in Berlin through the last year of the "cold war," will be withdrawn this summer in accordance with a general realignment of the administrative and military organizations in Germany, a reliable source said tonight.
Govt scores US coolness toward plea for 200,000 tons; charges breach of Teheran conf econ aid pledge
Trial of W Hauck and 8 former SS members, charged with 77 Ascq civilians massacre in '44, ends
Premier Stalin reptd demanding 5 steps as peace basis, United Nations World (pub) rept; Min Gromyko rept on talks with unnamed US businessman held responsible for Stalin view; Stalin shock at abrupt end of Lend-Lease linked to his stiffened post-war attitude
US High Comr McCloy outlines reorgn plans; seeks 10-man Cabinet; 3 top posts to be heads of pol, econ and new pub affairs divs; speculation; McCloy plans visit to US
US and GB announce plan to move key aides from Berlin to W Ger; US personnel problem increased by expected resignation of many Gen Clay aides; partial list
US to cut Mil Govt staff to about 60 plus US sector adm; aides fear pol effects; see USSR interpretation as withdrawal
Gen K von Choltitz, former Ger commander, repts ex-Amb Abetz backed him in refusing to obey orders to destroy city before withdrawal
Reynaud charges Abetz cherished pol hatred toward him, Blum and Mandel; other witnesses testify for Abetz
General MacArthur's statement yesterday makes it clear that he envisages the occupation of Japan as a process in two stages. The first consists of destroying the power of the Japanese to resist whatever policies we choose to impose on them. This is the stage in ...
ed on first US troops arrival at Atsugi airfield; ed on Eichelberger and his army qualifications for occupation task
Simultaneously with the demolition of the war industries of our late enemies and the stripping of their "surplus" industrial equipment for reparations, efforts are at last getting...
LONDON, April 18 -- Among Arabs in London the conviction is growing that the regular armies of the Arab states will be employed to occupy Palestine after the evacuation of the British forces if no other effective means of opposing the establishment of a Jewish state can be found.
SHANGHAI, Friday, Feb. 21 (UP) -- Japan is bringing increasing pressure to bear on French Indo-China and is prepared completely to occupy that country if necessary, occidental diplomatic sources said today.
denies he ordered murder of Min Mandel; admits suggesting execution of Mandel, L Blum and P Reynaud
The French Parliament has adjourned and M. POINCARE is assured of a vacation for at least three months. Predictions are that it will be a vacation after his own heart, chiefly devoted to working out next year's budget.
Abetz testifies he sent French art works to Ger for protection against war damage; says he was not anti-Semite; denies he backed execution of hostages; denies he aided recruitment and deportation of workers to Ger
2 Ruhr industrial groups agree to resume work and delivery of payments in kind; occupation at Dusseldorf modified
ALLIED OCCUPATION: US War Dept repts US forces at full strength; suspends assignment of individual recruits
number of men to be used for Ger occupation estimated; plans to return troops from Eur; questionnaires on voluntary service for Pacific being sent out
UN Assembly to be asked to recognize S Korea Govt and to approve continued US occupation until conditions are established
Govt to grant citizenship to children born during Ger occupation to Norwegian mothers and Ger fathers
ROME, April 25 -- Italian troops were "completing the occupation of the zone of Epirus" yesterday, says today's war bulletin. That is the first official indication of the territory that the Italian Army will occupy. Tonight's Tribuna says that "this occupation will be divided between the armed forces of the Axis according to a line and with conditions that will be fixed."
Allied Hdqrs repts imports for civilian population being paid for by exch of commodities; cites comparison with Ger, where US Govt pays for food in US zone
Mr. TARDIEU'S position is such that there can be no doubt of the authority and accuracy of his explanation of the negotiations leading up to the occupation of the Rhineland.
The investment of Japan is under way. American forces are about to occupy the home islands, which have never before been conquered.
Only the most naive optimist would believe that the Nationalist Government of China will ever return to national power. Whether we like it or not, the Communist regime is the de facto government, and sooner or later it must become the de jure government if the Western Powers wish to continue diplomatic relations with that country.
BELGRADE, Yugoslavia, Jan. (UP) -- All Russian envoys to Balkan capitals have been summoned to Moscow for immediate consultation, it was understood tonight as reports spread of an impending German "peaceful occupation" of Bulgaria, perhaps within two or three days.
The Haitian policy of intervention and military government which the Foreign Policy Association of New York and the National Popular Government League protest against as imperialistic and violative of international ...
The new spirit in which the Western Powers are conducting their occupation of Germany has been emphasized anew by Mr. McCloy in his first public statement as the new American Military Governor and designated member of the Allied High Commission for Germany.
Returning from Haiti, Senator McCORMICK, Chariman of a committee that has been inquiring into conditions in that republic, including the relations of the people with the Marine Corps garrison, states that the report...
Central Govt takes control of Canton and Shanghai; troops extend occupation of Jap-held areas; Jap looting reptd
ed on resolution providing for return of U. S. troops by every transportation facility that can be made available
Foreign properties at Ichang, Hupeh Province, reported to be occupied by Chinese troops; atmosphere in city unpleasant because of Gen Yan Sen's demand of $300,000
Dr Puender to conf with Ger attys on drafting occupation statute for W Ger following conf with Lord Pakenham
Maj Gen D T Cowan apptd head of Brit and Indian troops of Brit Commonwealth Japan occupation force
GUAM, Aug. 25 (U.P.)--American troops Tuesday will raise the American flag over Mili Island, the first Japanese territory to be formally surrendered in this war, the Navy announced today.
French Constituent Assembly to be asked to send com to French occupation zone to investigate alleged mismanagement
In point of time, the application of the State Department through the American member of the Reparations Commission to the conference of Allied Finance Ministers to allocate some $240,000,000 for the cost of the ...
Polish Provisional Govt invalidates Ger occupational zlotys; decrees exch for official coins and deposits with govt
BERLIN, April 10 (AP) -- Following is the text of the Occupation Statute drawn up by the three Western powers for control of Western Germany:
Bulgarian Propaganda Min Kazakoff repts Bulgarian repr aided by local comm of 2 Greeks, 1 Bulgarian; 1 Turk to administer Thrace; Bulgaria to retain communications control; gradual transfer of govt to local adm promised; Turkish sources again rept USSR-Bulgarian aim to occupy Thrace jointly
PARIS, Jan. 27. -- Railway schedules in Germany have been reduced 10 or 20 per cent. a curfew is sounded at 10 o'clock at night, dancing establishments are forbidden, street lighting reduced land the civilian population urged to use the strictest economy in fuel throughout the Fatherland.
Mueller confers at Geneva with Lord Cushendun and Italian delegate; Eur hopes U S will aid reparations-Rhineland settlement by buying German bonds; Berlin puts occupation troops at 67,000
Abetz tells ct he aided France; repts he was ousted as Amb because of soft policy
LONDON, Monday, Aug. 10. -- The Daily News has a dispatch from Brussels, describing the "peaceable occupation" of the city of Liege by the Germans on Friday night and Saturday morning. The seeming contradiction in the dispatches about the situation at Liege lies in two ways of looking at the same thing.
Allies plan use of ground troops and air force to occupy country; div of Ger into 3 spheres of influence seen
BERLIN, May 20 -- Copies of the Overseas Weekly of THE NEW Y0RK TIMES have been confiscated by the German police on the orders of the military administration in the Soviet zone of occupation and the weekly is now barred in that area, William Freese, European manager of the overseas edition, said tonight.
Brit Parliamentary group headed by Sir J Wardlaw-Milne releases memorandum seeking dismemberment of Ger into group of autonomous States free from Prussian rule; cites need for long occupation of Ger and surveillance of econ structure
Finance Ministry repts on cost to Jap Govt of Allied occupation to end of '45; outlay by Allies noted; special reparations acct to be established to meet future costs
TOKYO, March 16 -- The too free use of security classifications on matters of a purely business nature was severely criticized today in a statement issued by Dennis McEvoy, president of the American Chamber of Commerce in Japan.
Berne sources rept Hungarian mil groups participated in occupation; Ital regiment reptd with Gers on Spanish border
L Wilkinson and P Hawkins to resign Aug 1; other US Mil Govt aides to quit as result of shift to civil adm
The diplomatic contest over Iran diverts attention from the problems coming to a head in Germany, still the decisive meeting place of the Great Powers.
RC priest J Kragelj gets death sentence, 2 others prison terms, on charge of collaborating with Nazis
western Allies cut costs for fiscal '50 at US insistence; levies put at 1.15 billion marks for US, 1.482 billion for GB and 583 billion for France
Allied Hdqrs official confirms rept that USSR troops will arrive early in '46; MacArthur denies he has such information; Hokkaido occupation issue noted; Brit troops arrival reptd scheduled; Chinese reptd unable to send troops at present
pol rehabilitation expected to increase rapidly; occupation cut to 2 1/2 years seen; US will curtail army in its zone
US Lt Linderose kills USSR soldier after Russians fire twice on his zonal border patrol near Coburg; comments; por; map; US officers blame Russians; USSR-licensed news bur repts other incident in same area
CHICAGO, July 18 -- Occupation, a fast-breaking strong-finishing colt owned by John Marsch, Chicago contractor, captured the $62,900 Arlinton Futurity impressively today in stake record time -- 1:10 2-5 for six furlongs.
Govt to send troops to Ger to participate in occupation; plans to take over part of Brit zone
Ger sources rept USSR returns dependents of occupation forces to USSR; Soviet Information Office denies knowledge of move
CHICAGO, Aug. 15 -- Occupation, fastest working 2-year-old on the American turf, raced to a neck victory in the $69,875 Washington Park Futurity today.
MacArthur hdqrs warns Japanese to discount repts on major changes in occupation labor policies; Diet to act on bill prohibiting collective bargaining
revisionist issue reptd mounting with Hungarian Transylvania occupation; troops reach Maros-Vasarhely (Tirgu-Nuresului); Szeklers hail Hungarians; incidents reptd, Kolozavar; Belgrade German sources hint at new Ital-Greek crisis
PAYTA, Peru, Sept. 19, via Galveston.-- The steamer Amazons, with 600 infantry and cav  alry and two guns, arrived here on Sept. 17. The troops proceeded by rail to Sullana, where 50 men were left, the remainder continuing their journey  to Piura the same night. Col. Carvello reports that Piura was occupied yesterday. Prefect Seminario fled.
occupation div and indus agree on continued stabilization of present price levels; call for meeting with US importers and Jap mfrs, Raw Silk Assn of Japan
BORNHOLM: Brit Min P J Noel-Baker repts GB will not refer USSR occupation to UNO Security Council
Clark holds final rev of troops; cheered by Austrians; Clark leaves for Italy; succeeded by Lt Gen Keyes as Comdr-in-Chief of US forces
CHICAGO, July 19 (AP) -- J.H. Rouse's Three Dots today captured the Myrtlewood Handicap on the Arlington Park program at Washington Park. He finished in 1:10 to break his own track record for six furlongs.
VETERAN collector maintains that there are few bread-winning pursuits better adapted to woman's delicate touch, innate taste, and artistic feeling than print inlaying and extra illustration. In a quaint shop in Nassau Street -- a shop which the same family has retained some forty years -- the Misses Lawrence ply this unique and fascinating art.
Dates for several of twelve proejected regional conferences on occupational adjustment to be held during the Fall and Winter months in various cities throughout the country have been announced by the National Occupation Conferene.
43 sentenced by Rumanian ct for crimes committed against Rumanian pub during Hungarian occupation of Transylvania
Jap Govt ordered to provide material for construction and repair of bldgs to house about 20,000 family groups
VICHY, Oct. 18 -- The statement of condition of the Bank of France dated Sept. 17 shows no important change in the credits granted the securities market for the decrease of 395,000,000 francs in discounts was compensated within a few millions by an increase in bills bought on the market and by thirty-day advances on bonds.
explains that he meant France would occupy left bank of Rhine, not Ruhr, until Treaty has been executed
confirms occupation of Zenjan by Govt troops; says martial law has been imposed on entire dist; strategic importance of city noted
Norway appeals to World Ct to sanction occupation of southeastern part, and to declare Denmark has no police authority over Norwegian subjects in that area
Some time ago the Breslau oculist, Dr. H. Cohn, on examining the eyes of 75 watchmakers, found that scarcely 5 per cent. of the number were affected with short-sightedness, which result seemed to justify the belief that...
US constabulary to replace 3d Army as chief occupation force; 3d Army hdqrs to stay for 2 mos
Jewish Telegraphic Agency repts negotiations in Berlin for Jewish scholar to occupy Mrs N I Miller chair
COBLENZ, June 25 (Associated Press).--The presence of American troops on the Rhine "is a great restraining influence," according to a statement made today by Henry Morgenthau, former American Ambassador to Turkey, prior to leaving Coblenz.
asks occupation force personnel replacement by those who will take job seriously, s at enlisted men's club dedication, Berlin
Japan: Allied Command authorizes use of Bank of Japan yen and occupation-forces yen; sets same dollar exch rate for both
Lt Gen J Northcott repts Australian troops to begin moving in from Morotai in month; will occupy Kure
AMG to open offices in several Java cities and towns to permit civil marriages between Netherland couples
Berne source on occupation effects on Lyon, Marseille, Toulouse and other cities; border controls continue; Petain reptd in correspondence with Berlin regarding Weygand
WASHINGTON, June 4 -- In a memorandum to State branches, the Selective Service System, listed the production, transmission, and distribution of electric power as occupations essential to the war effort.
Copyright, 1923. by The Chicago Tribune Co. BERLIN, Jan. 22. -- While no official report has been received here regarding the propositions which M. Barthou is presenting today for a moratorium to Germany. If these in any way follow the lines suggested in the French press yesterday they will not he acceptable.
--The  death rate of different occupations yields some curious results. Taking as a basis of comparison the mortality of all males of similar ages in England and Wales as 1,000 ...
ATHENS, Nov. 16. -- Russia has recognized the Greek occupation of Salonika as definite, according to a dispatch received here to-day. The Russian Consul at Salonika is said to have received coded instructions from St. Petersburg formally to recognize Grecian rule and to place himself under the jurisdiction of the Russian Legation at Athens.
The doctors are conspiring with Idleness, the mother of vices, to make us abhor labor. They have taught us for years that certain occupations are hurtful, and tend to shorten life.
VIENNA, Oct. 15.--Great demonstrations occurred today in Laibach; Jugoslavia, the people demanding immediate occupation of Klagenfurt, where Sunday's plebiscite resulted in favor of Austrian sovereignty, according to dispatches received here today.
TO THE EDITOR OP THE NEW YORK TIMES: You are surely correct in your editorial today on Iceland when you say that "every far-sighted American will welcome the news that our troops have occupied that island * * * under the driving compulsion of events," and that we are now "taking our place in the line and playing our part in the defense of freedom."
HAIFA, Palestine, June 27 -- General Charles de Gaulle, the Free French leader, visited Damascus yesterday morning with General Georges Catroux and General Jean le Gentilhomme and inspected the damage from Wednesday's bombing.
Allied Control Council orders bur 'L' closed because of its dealing in mil matters in violation of order dissolving Austrian Army
THIS is the story of "God's Messenger to Japan," Gen. Douglas MacArthur and his willing "Charlie," the very much dedeified Emperor Hirohito; of the amazing American GI, "the best ambassador the United States ever had," and his somewhat bawdy Madame Butterfly; of equally amazing American correspondents in their extracurricular hunts for top-level war criminals; and of Suzuki-san, the bedraggled Japanese-in-the-street who gropes his arduous way to political adolescence.
designed as Army of Occupation; is composed of 10 divs; commanded by Maj Gen J. T. Dickman; occupies Montmedy
H T Allen seeks nomination; C Hull leads Smith on eve of N C State Convention
Peasants clash with Ital troops as latter seize crops; Itals hold many as hostages; guerrillas aid pub
LONDON, April 29.--On the trip from Paris to London today Premier Briand joined a group of newspaper correspondents aboard the Channel boat and discussed the reparation situation very freely, but not for publication. In the...
Kentucky housewives protest their classification as idlers on census information blanks; ask that occupation housewife be listed
WASHINGTON, Sept. 1--Behind Gen. Douglas MacArthur's triumphant entry this week into Japan and the signing of the surrender lie the story of the planning for ...
TUCKED off in corners of the big cities are people who depend upon unusual occupations for their living. New York, with her cosmopolitan population, contains most of these, and they all seem to thrive in their own peculiar lines.
CONSTANTINOPLE, Aug. 6.--The Greeks have occupied Lefke Pass, a short distance northeast of Brusa, and are expected soon to reoccupy Ismid.
That woman suffrage may be objectionable to you as an individual may be true. That you may regard it as leading to an unreasonable derangement of the political and social structure may also be believed by yourself. That this view is the only view of the subject is far from an accurate statement of the case.
guerrilla forces fight Gers, Montenegro; annihiliate Gers, eastern Bosnia; Hitler Elite Guard formation reptd replacing Ital units; Ger reprisal on Zbizdar peasants for resistance described; Ger attempts to seize priest, Bukovica, fails; Free Yugoslavia radio station sending of dispatches to Press Wireless revealed
Bologna patriots hang 5 civilians who had been Ger agents as Natl Liberation Com pledges curb on such reprisals
Changes in United States policy in some of the occupied areas -- and particularly major changes in the administration of those areas -- are forecast by recent events.
Brit plan to fly U S planes to Eng via Nfld imperiled by German occupation of Norway
CHICAGO, Ill., Jan. 25.--The Supreme Court of Illinois in a test case before it, has decided that the city of Chicago is authorized to tax occupations, the only restriction being that ...
CHICAGO, Aug. 7 (AP) -- Signator, speedy 5-year-old sprinter owned by Herbert Woolf of Kansas City, Mo., led from start to finish of the $10,000 added Chicago Handicap at Washington Park today.
Perhaps among the multitude of your readers there may be some qualified by experience and philosophy to offer sympathy or suggestion to a man of 55 years, in good health, possessing a modest competence, who relinquished business less than a year ago on account of its exactions of attendance, and is now fairly miserable in the absence of occupation.
McCloy arrives, Frankfort; assumes Command; plans tour; Sec Gray message urges Lt Gen Huebner and Maj Gen Hays cooperation; says Army will keep control for 2 to 3 mos
Settlement of fate probable within 6 weeks; intervention of powers unlikely; von Starhemberg seen as Hitler ally; Heimwehr quit Innsbruck
Lt Col Boulware says UN Mil Govt backs Govt crop collection program; notes crop outlook; scores under-reptg of crops and acreages
Communist party secgen F Fuernberg urges USSR to cut or end charges; Col Gen Kurasov reply
BERLIN, Jan. 13--The virtually unmanageable United States occupation organization is one of the principal factors in the slowness of weeding out key pro-Nazis and in the failure to make a better impression on the Germans we are trying to govern.
USSR occupation forces protest to Finns on lack of food, water and elec at Hangoe; USSR Army reptd landing on Valamo Is and finding Russian monastery wrecked
J F Butler, U S Commercial attache, will investigate and report on complaints of trade hindrance
LIFE is very difficult. It is painful to get up in the morning when the room is cold and the only reason for getting up at all is to beat the children into shape for school. It is equally painful to go to bed at night, to leave the party before the last supporter of Hamilton Fish has been baited into a frenzy of misquotation and rage.
US and GB move hdqrs to Bonn to be near proposed Ger Govt; Belgian troops to quit city
OF all the "inside" pictures that have come along recently -- and by "inside" pictures we mean those that imagine the way things are in Nazi-occupied countries -- the most respectable, intellectually, has been Jean Renoir's and Dudley Nichols' current "This Land Is Mine."
COPENHAGEN, Jan. 20.--The first of the troops of occupation arrived today at Handerslev, Slesvig. They are 300 Alpines. They were received by immense crowds and the City Council, who welcomed them with "Vive La France." The town was all decorated with the Dannebrog and tricolor. The population was enthusiastic from early morning, displaying the old flag for the first time after fifty--five years.
TOKYO, Sept. 23 -- Dozens of restrictive rules, all irksome to Allied personnel here and most honored in the breach, were eased today by Gen. Douglas MacArthur. In the future the wall separating the foreign community from Japanese life will not be quite so high.
discuss their countries role in post-war occupation of Ger and possible share in world police force
HAVANA, April 8. -- The members of the committee of insurgents with whom Secretary Taft and Assistant Secretary of State Bacon made arrangements for peace in Cuba in September last had a conference with the Secretary to-day lasting from 10 o'clock in the morning until 1:30 in the afternoon.
US Army information and educ div repts average age and background of US occupation soldier; stresses need for training; describes courses, aims and training media
ROME, June 20. -- The wealth of ancient relics dating from the days of Grecian and Roman dominion over the Mediterranean, that is constantly being brought to light by Italy's occupation of Tripolitania, Cyrene, and the eastern islands of the Aegean has been indicated from time to time by writers for the press, but there is another period of history quite as fascinating which is being revealed -- the epochs of the Crusaders.
MacArthur favors treaty initiation now; holds UN could be protector and admr after occupation troops withdraw, press conf; Jap reaction
agreement reached by Clemenceau and Allenby provides for evacuation by British and leaving French in virtual control
LONDON, Feb. 16. -- A dispatch from Athens to The Evening News says that Greek troops have landed at the Bay of Kolymbari.
H. Morgenthau fears chaos and suggests occupation by Allies, at dinner given him by Armenians of N Y
WASHINGTON, June 29 (AP) -- Following is the text of the Charter of the Allied High Commission for Germany as signed at Paris June 20 by representatives of the United States, Britain and France:
TOKYO, Jan. 22 -- Discontent with what may be interpreted as an occupation drive to modify the Japanese labor system is becoming increasingly apparent. It is hard to find an industrial leader who favors industrial rationalization -- which here means the laying off of surplus workers -- and impossible to find a labor leader who wants it.
White House statement on US occupation policy for Japan provides for resumption of foreign trade operations on restricted scale
Pres Jimenez conf with 7 ex-Presidents on US occupation of defense bases disclosed; says talks with US officials are deadlocked
Gen. Otis cables to the War Department this amazing news: "Referring to your cablegram of Sept. 18, sixteen churches, different localities, occupied by United States troops. Four only partially occupied, and religious services not interfered with. Also three convents occupied. These three and ten of the sixteen churches formerly occupied by insurgents.
Iranian officials voiced fears here yesterday that the Soviet Union planned to invoke a twenty-eight-year-old treaty whereby its troops might enter Iran on the pretext that her security was threatened.
Govt. protests against occupation of Cephalonia by Allies; Allies' reply; Sir F. F. H. Elliott received by King Constantine
The German War Ministry was inclined to be first indignant and then a little contemptuous today on learning that American morning newspapers had asserted on information sent out by two news agencies under a Berlin date line that the German advance into Czechoslovakia had crossed the border soon after midnight.
Premier Ribot sends message to B. Venizelos; Col. Grivas and officers resisting French at Larissa arrested; Mayor of Piraeus reinstated; French occupy Pharsala and Domokos; British occupy Demirli
The arguments against an extra session of Congress are so overwhelming that in all likelihood we shall have an extra session.
DUESSELDORF, Oct. 17. -- The Railroadmen's Union told its members late yesterday to obey the Berlin instructions to accept work under the French. The first German official wearing the traditional uniform was seen on duty at Dusseldorf today.
disposal of DPs in Austria seen eased by 9 nations offer to employ certain groups; problem discussed; arrival of new groups in Austria noted
NUREMBERG, Germany, March 16--The basic decision of the Potsdam Conference last summer still awaits implementation. It was that Germany would be administered by the four occupying powers as an economic unit.
KAUNAS, Lithuania, Oct. 26--It was announced here tonight that Lithuanian troops will begin to enter the Vilna district at 9 o'clock tomorrow morning, after agreement for the occupation of the territory...
anxiety over occupation cost to Japanese despite expense cut order noted; cost in current fiscal yr estimated
WASHINGTON, July 27.--The Senate adopted today a resolution by Senator McCormick, Republican, of Illinois providing for an investigation of American occupation and administration of Haiti and Santo Domingo. A special committee of five Senators will conduct the inquiry.
TOKYO, Sunday, Aug. 7 -- As the fourth anniversary of the Japanese surrender approaches, Gen. Douglas MacArthur has informed subsidiary commands under his control that the basic aims of the occupation have now been achieved, it was reported here today.
WASHINGTON, March 16.--The American Government's views respecting reimbursement for the cost of maintenance of the American Army of Occupation on the Rhine will be carefully set forth in due time in notes which Secretary of State Hughes will send to the allied Governments.
Policeman McCullogh, of the Eleventh Precinct, took Charles Matty, of No. 229 East Twenty-seventh-street, into the Essex Market Police Court yesterday on a charge of intoxication.
ROME, Sept. 9. -- Conservative Italian financial circles have maintained an attitude of benevolent expectation toward the Italian-Greek incident, without any excessive fears that its consequences would broaden beyond the occupation of Corfu, for the purpose of guarantees. Also, the differences of opinion as to the competence of the League of Nations, or a conference of Ambassadors, leaves financial circles cold.
Eur Advisory Comm envisages plan for joint US-Brit-Russian occupation; rehabilitation rather than punishment planned; country to be barred from uniting with any part of Ger; sovereignty to be restored; Allies uncertain as to what group they will deal with; Moscow Conf declaration of Nov 1, '43 text
Gruber scores occupation; cites difficulties with USSR as chief cause for unrest; lauds US Army conduct; scores USSR seizures
TOKYO, July 16 -- Employers hit by dwindling purchasing power and the virtual nonexistence of credit continue to meet their difficulties by failing to pay wages. The Labor Ministry reported today that 895 concerns were short 858,000,000 yen in wage payments in the first half of June.
W M Ball resigns from Allied Control Council after friction with Min Evatt over MacArthur policies; Evatt calls occupation successful
Criticism of illegal and brutal actions of Chinese militarists in report is likely to meet with approval of Chinese, article by T F Millard
Soldiers halt Cluj demonstrations; other cities calm; Manitu to work for 3-power Transylvania Parliament; opposed by Hungarian minority; troops and civilians evacuate Transylvania; German Min Fabricius protests Brasov demonstrations; conf with USSR Min Lavrentieff; Premier Gigurtu appeals to pub; Lugoshanu assails cession; USSR planes continue flights over Moldavia; Rumanian-Bulgarian conf almost settled; 2 Rumanian gens threaten to resist Transylvania occupation; comm agrees on occupation problems
LONDON, Oct. 11 (Associated Press).-- With the armistice just signed at Mudania, putting an end to the warfare between the Greeks and Turkish Nationalists, plans for the conferences designed to bring about a definite peace in the Near East are proceeding in a less agitated atmosphere. Two conferences to this end are being arranged for, one to fix the general Near Eastern peace...
Allied Hdqrs abandons yen; substitutes new mil currency in all transactions involving US Army; Col H S Ruth links adoption with plan to curb remittances home and black market activities; new issue not legal tender among Japanese; new order provisions cited; effect on US civilians not on Govt payrolls and on US trade with Japan discussed
Feature article on Norway-Denmark controversy; map showing relation of island to 2 countries; illus of coast
PARIS, Nov. 10. -- The six great powers, Great Britain, France, and Russia, constituting the Triple Entente, and Germany, Austria, and Italy, comprising the Triple Alliance, are believed to be at the point of reaching an agreement to prevent the Bulgarian Army from occupying Constantinople.
That headline over a one-paragraph story in our news columns yesterday records the belated but commendable willingness of the taxpayers of Union School District 13 of South Huntington, L. I., to undertake the financial burden of a new elementary school. We comment on this action, taken at a special election, to complete the record on what had become, in a small way, a somewhat celebrated case.
C B Rugg to direct Massachusetts Repubs fight against initiative petition barring parochial school pupils from ps buses
Educ Bd study shows elementary teacher shortage is almost over; Supt Jansen comments; 2,000 more teachers on all levels seen needed, '50-51
Regents study plan to train practical nurses in hs and legalize practice at 17 yrs of age
ALP exec A Schutzer asks bd probe; Moss says bd lacks power; Schutzer will push fight
NYS Dem Com and PE Ch com back Educ Dept proposal for $500-million state bond issue; Empire State Teachers Union Fed asks $200 million in state aid
Philippines Brig Gen Romulo and former US Amb Grew differ on Japan role as peace bulwark in Far East
United Parents Assns urges grant to keep 568 hs and jr hs substitute teachers to be dropped, '50
Dean Thatcher sees teacher shortage lasting 8-10 yrs; Potsdam State Teachers Coll acts to meet elementary teacher shortage
Supt Jansen clears teacher M A Quinn of intentional bias in remarks on Negroes; Teachers Union protests
2 Moscow schools described; I A Pavenko says traning stresses love of country, Communist party and its leaders
Examiners Bd tests use of group instead of personal ints to select supervisors and admrs; Dr H Fields comments
2 Negro teachers jailed as Educ Bd continues probe of alleged cheating on certification exams; 600 Negro teachers held involved
Conn Assembly approves compromise bill for $1.4 million in state aid for bldg and repairs; Gov Bowles lauds action
Civil Engineering Dept gets $7,000 from Research Corp to study engineering materials; Prof A M Freudenthal made study dir
BRONXVILLE, N. Y., Dec. 9 -- Ending a five-day visit here as guests of Bronxville High School, and its pupils, thirty-three seniors of Oak Ridge (Tenn.) High School started home by bus this afternoon. In March an equivalent number of Bronxville pupils will visit Oak Ridge.
Educ Bd, 7-1, approves transfer of Dr J King, principal, from PS 70 to PS 25, Brooklyn; M Moss urges King, as qualified Negro, be made asst supt; J Marshall replies
Educ Dept official blames cursory checks of emergency teachers backgrounds for rise in sex offenses against students
Lord Vansittart queries Communist rept that 2,000 party members are teachers, Lords; Govt repr Lord Lucas says teachers pol views are private affair
Health Dept repts record low rate of 39.6 deaths per 100,000 population from all accidents except autos, Jan-Sept
Comr Spaulding orders Hempstead School Dist rezoned to send pupils to nearest schools; Prospect St school affected
UN Assembly approves proposals to improve facilities in dependent areas and spur schools use of native languages
Schoolboy mail orders of firecrackers starts inquiry, Phila; 3 teen-agers fined; 1 schoolgirl burned by exploding cracker
Educ Bd hearing on Examiners Bd appeals procedures; 5 groups urge appeal com within bd; independent unit favored by 2 groups
A month before the New York Legislature acted we opposed, as blunderbuss method, the Feinberg law to rid the public schools of subversive employes. The bill was passed, by 41 to 14 in the Senate and by 122 to 25 in the Assembly, in the closing hours of the session, and quickly signed by the Governor.
Gen Marshall sees currency and trade barriers hardest problems; regrets initial program was not on integrated basis
NLRB rules educ bd, as pol subdiv of state, is beyond Taft-Hartley law scope in dealings with labor unions, case of Elec Workers Local 16 and A J Schneider workers against F Abrams Elec Co bldg school, Owensboro, Ky
NYS Supt Ct Justice Schirick holds Feinberg Law unconst, test cases of Communist party and 5 teachers; opinion excerpts; NYS to appeal; C J Bensley, A Lederman and other laud decision
NYS Teachers Assn urges automatic pay rises be extended from 6-12 yrs with top of $3,500
In the decade following World War I the nation's colleges and universities virtually doubled their enrollment. Even the depression of the early Thirties could not stop the trend. By the time World War II began higher education had reached its peak in this country, with a student enrollment of nearly 1,500,000. It was generally felt that the colleges could not expand much beyond that figure and still maintain adequate standards.
students to act as baby sitters so parents can vote on $4.5-million bldg project, E Providence, RI
BALTIMORE, Nov. 26 -- A warning that America's freedoms are being menaced by internal forces as well as by totalitarianism outside the country was given today to a nation-wide gathering of 1,200 educators.
Regents appt citizens council to help Educ Dept revise hs program to meet student needs; Chancellor Wallin cites attrition problem
Provision of educational opportunity is unique among the responsibilities of government. When government fails to provide proper facilities on schedule, as the arrival of children at the school door creates demand, the children -- and our democratic society -- suffer a loss that cannot be fully repaired at any later time.
Dr H K Stiebeling credits school lunch programs for better diet in low income groups; Dr M E Lowenberg urges community educ projects in nutrition
HS Teachers Assn breaks with Teachers Orgns Joint Com over single pay schedule; denies NYC teachers get highest pay in US
use of inter-county consol high schools seen threatened by Baltimore Fed ct ruling that bias exists where Negroes must travel farther than whites, Pulaski County, Va, case
Columbia Teachers Coll survey shows acute crisis; only 54% of children attend; others go only 2 to 4 yrs; recommendations; Dr G N Mackenzie sees at least $115 million needed, int; asks $8-10 million in Fed aid
Col H Allen repts only 39% of students in program despite 100% rise in participation since '45
FSA survey shows over 1/2 have fewer than 100 pupils and 1 out of 5 fewer than 50
Citizens Union scores proposed use of housing funds for bldg, lr to Planning Comm; asks additional $8.5 million in proposed '50 capital budget
The charge that this country is neglecting the education of its teachers was made last week before a gathering of distinguished educators. Not enough money is being spent on preparing young men and women to be competent or well-rounded teachers, a number of speakers insisted.
M Moss says Supt Jansen favors adding assoc supt; Jansen would appt M A McCloskey; Moss says bd power to name assoc supt is only nominal
USSR Prof I F Svadkovsky holds theory is based on doctrine of original sin; defines and scores certain aims
Gov Talmadge scores parents suit for equal facilities, Irwin County, Ga; blames Northerners; pledges fight; Southern Regional Council exec urges facilities
House Un-Amer Activities Com rept brands Cong of Amer Women as Communist; charges USSR Embassy backing and link to Women's Internatl Dem Fed; discusses Mrs F March, S B Anthony 2d, Mrs G Pinchot and Mrs M Draper roles; Mrs March, Mrs Pinchot, Dr G Weltfish comment
Conf NYC, on problem; Supt Jansen links truancy to personality problems; others urge mental hygiene approach to curb trend
on educ and power plant, ss, Queens; demands O'Dwyer apologize for using phrase 'Marcantonio's fine Ital hand'; comments on Sanitation Dept labor relations
The thought-provoking special edition of Architectural Forum magazine devoted wholly to schools, with its sharp criticism of the New York school system and the city administration, is published, by coincidence, in the heat of the political campaign. Timed otherwise it might have been received in official quarters with less tendency to self-justification and more willingness to re-shape policy.
NYC Estimate Bd approves plans for vertical lift bridge over Harlem River canal to replace Bway-225th St span
Suspected Communists and sympathisers ousted; Tokyo Asahi on extent of purge; few educators seen resisting dismissals; US occupation authorities views
Last June some of this country's most eminent educators, members of the Educational Policies Commission, issued a report dealing with the problems schools and teachers have to face as a result of the current cold war of ideas. They believed that students should be given an "objective exposure to facts," and this ruled out Communists as teachers.
$500-a-yr pay rise costing $20 million seen by election time; N Morris backs $3,600 minimum equal pay; Mrs M A Healy says he wants state funds; he comments; she says Mayor O'Dwyer approved rise after getting Joint Teachers Orgns Com rept
NEA comm, including Gen Eisenhower and Dr J B Conant, opposes state laws requiring special loyalty oaths; warns pub against careless use of Red and Communist
Mrs R C Simonson and 2 others withdraw; charge some members are not liberals; Moritt blames Teachers Union and Teachers Guild conflict; Mrs R V Russell lauds Moritt
R O Bennett sees rate cuts possible if drivers under 25 pass approved driver educ courses; Natl Conf on HS Driver Educ urges cos studying accident statistics of teen-age drivers limit surveys to 14-19-yr group
450 employes, New Britain, start study tour of nearby mfg firms to get mgt views; Supt Forbes comments
E J Smythe pickets White House in protest against listing of his orgn, Protestant War Veterans of USA, as subversive
Sen Dulles backs power and seaway development; charges Dem Adm in Washington sidetracked project for pol reasons
M Moss says Educ Bd weighs pay rises; sees pol in A G Clauson demands for rises
Luncheon, NYC; natl comdr N Wagener hon; says orgn will continue counter-picketing of Communists; City Council Pres Impellitteri s
Sup Ct, Albany, reserves decision on Communist party move for permanent stay; extends deadline for local bds submitting loyalty repts; state and Communist party counsels exch views
US Tax Ct, Washington, rejects Mrs N P Hill Plea for income tax deduction for summer school expenses; she plans appeal
Sec Curran urges Sen Dulles election to US Sen to ease way for drafting Dewey for another term
25 assail, 5 back Feinberg Law, Educ Bd hearing; Lt Gov Hanley doubts its const and effectiveness; Mrs J Lindlof, C J Bensley, Mrs R V Russell and others comment
int on Fed aid to educ; says he does not want to be thought of as anti-Cath
Teachers Union to ask NYC Educ Bd to join suit testing const; Mrs R V Russell comments
M Bartell, Socialist Workers candidate for NYC Mayor, pledges fight on ch attempts to dominate soc
Jansen outlines procedure to implement Feinberg Law; will protect employes from careless charges; Teachers Union sues bd to test const of law; Teachers Guild, Sen Moritt and others score procedure; Mrs R V Russell comments
700 from Teachers Union ask Sup Ct, Bklyn, stay enforcement by bd while const is tested
House Un-Amer Activities Com gets repts that UERMWA gives pro-Communist material to teachers in some cities
Comr Mustard sees wane, NYC, with 19% drop; schools to open; Mustard sees no risk, boro figures
4 educ orgns to ignore bd hearing; urge fight for law repeal; Communist party and Teachers Union oppose hearing
H Rushmore charges Mrs F D Roosevelt and ex-Sec Hull ordered re-entry permit granted Mrs E Browder, '44, after deportation for illegal entry
Jersey City, NJ, Educ Bd to ask more funds for PS 8 erection; raised costs cited
NYC repts 3-wk drop; total 1,789; 150 deaths; NYS, 3,290; NJ, 843; NYC school attendance about normal
Dr W S Guthrie repts school applications drop, '49, but still outnumber openings 3.8 to 1
NEA comm puts need for new elementary teachers at 125,000, '49-50; holds 17,000 qualified; div repts on emergency teachers since '46-47
Rev Dr F E Johnson on Cath scholars reexamination of ch-state relations; Rev J C Murray comment
NYC total 1,648; 143 deaths; NJ, 715; NYS, 2,939; 177 deaths; several dists delay school openings
Sen passes bill renewing program for local agencies on Fed reservations and in defense areas until June, '50
plan faces 1st ct test as Md Atty Gen Hammond asks Baltimore ct to dismiss suits of 6 Negroes seeking admission to Md Univ; argues equal facilities exist elsewhere
Dist 7 citizens group asks Educ Bd to recount votes on fund to renovate H Phipps home
House votes to let veterans work on ps construction while in training for bldg trades under GI Bill
Amer Teachers Fed holds Communist party membership insufficient basis for dismissing teachers; holds incompetence is sole basis; warns against witch hunts
conf begins; Repr Sims and others accuse Lesinski of dilatory tactics; Sims urges House (Lesinski) com force vote on Barden bill; J B Carey asks aid for all services
Gov Wright com offers proposal to equalize teachers pay; legis outlook; G N Bates '48 suit against Jackson revd
NYC cases rise for 3d day; US Pub Health Service sees natl epidemic waning; US total 17,306, NYS, 2,158 cases, 129 deaths; Washington County critical; Hudson Falls, NY, to delay school opening; nurse recruitment gains
NEA reprs to attend Lesinski-sponsored conf; R B Marston urges House act on Sen Thomas bill; says conf imperils enactment
bd law (Timone) com meets on implementing law; 4 unions and ALP urge Moss to refuse to enforce it
F C Hughes says US Sup Ct decision, McCollum case, makes devotions in Boothbay Harbor, Me, pub schools unconst; state atty gen disagrees
18 parents sue Irwin County, Ga, bd and school supt for equal facilities; Gov Talmadge promises aid if asked
A delegation of union officers last week visited Maximilian Moss, president of the New York City Board of Education, to urge him to refuse to enforce the Feinberg law, which prohibits subversive persons from holding public school jobs. A few hours afterward the board's law committee held its first meeting preliminary to putting the law into operation.
US Agr Dept buys 1 million cases of cans for school lunch program to aid W Coast growers
Pres Truman conf with Dem leaders on Thomas bill; recalls aid was Pres election issue; conferees dubious of passage this session; aux services an issue
USSR Teachers Gazette charges US educators, led by Internatl Educ Inst, use educ devices to undermine natl sovereignties and instill cosmopolitanism; scores T W Lamont and Sen Dulles; inst official J S Hollister replies
House com, 13-12, rejects motion to drop aid issue for current Cong session after rejecting moves to rept Thomas and Kearns bills; H Fish calls Mrs Roosevelt anti-Cath
125 art students lose GI benefits as leading Mex painters boycott school, which closes, San Miguel Allende, Mex
G Schermer repts on race relations, St Louis; offers 22 recommendations to end segregation; backed by Mayor's Human Relations Council
Mayor O'Dwyer holds her free of bigotry; seeks reconciliation with Cardinal Spellman; J G Glass lauds O'Dwyer stand
Dr W K Wilson of NYS Educ Bd urges State aid to Union Free School Dist 13 be halted until it provides adequate facilities
Reprs Morton, Kearns and Werdel offer bill for aid to needy states only; states and estimated amts listed; states to decide on aid to ch and private schools; House passes legis extending aid to war-boom areas
teachers fed delegates attempt to censure pres T A Murray defeated; salaries of 2 top officers raised to $13,500; credentials com procedures scored by delegate H Reich
NYS Communist party scores assigning Feinberg Law enforcement to G A Timone, wire to Educ Bd pres M Moss; accuses Timone of bias
J Marshall charges local pressures, not need, determined priority list for '50 bldg, lr to R F Wagner Jr
Dr A F Myers and others urge enactment; Myers asks $10 billion in Fed aid for 10-yr program
ALBANY, July 15 -- Following is the text of a rule adopted today by the Board of Regents concerning the disqualification or removal of public school employes for membership in subversive organizations:
Comr Spaulding orders school officials oust teachers held subversive in school or outside activities; warns against witch-hunting; ALP exec sec A Schutzer urges Spaulding be ousted
Cardinal Spellman calls her anti-Cath and biased for newspaper columns opposing Fed aid to ch schools, lr
For 800,000 public school pupils July 1 meant the start of the summer vacation. But for the Board of Education it meant the beginning of the 1949-50 school year. Accordingly, Charles J. Bensley, chairman of the board's committee on buildings and sites, announced that the greatest repair and modernization program in the history of the city's school system would be under way this year.
she disavows anti-Cath or other bias, lr to Spellman; affirms right to discuss pub issues; J A Farley on dispute; Dr Behnken defends her
Leaves Yale Coll to be headmaster of Detroit Univ School and Grosse Pointe Country Day School
NY PE Diocese comm bulletin attacks Educ Bd policies and practices; charges RC Ch pressure in some issues; specific complaints summarized
DURHAM, N. H., July 2 -- Despite the desperate shortage of qualified elementary school teachers, far too great a proportion of those preparing to teach are going into the secondary field. As a result the primary grades, particularly in the rural districts, face an even more acute shortage.
Bishop Gilbert asks impartial probe of comm charges; Supt Jansen pledges educ officials cooperation; Rev Dr Searle comments
Dean R C Maul study shows 260,000 elementary teachers are unqualified; Dr H J Bowers repts excess of hs teachers; notes program to retrain jobless for elementary field
Regents com hearings on 5 orgns open; Communist party reprs Mrs J Gates and A Unger call law unconst; other orgns reprs blast law
H C Hoover favors aid to backward states only, lr to Repr McConnell; fears Fed controls urges aid be based on educ rather than econ standards; cites some
Supt Jansen calls attack 1-sided; Mayor O'Dwyer, P F Scanlan and Mrs R V Russell comment
AAUP com repts 6 coll teachers lay dismissals to backing H A Wallace for Pres; cites 3 insts censured since '39
NYC United Parents Assns pres D I Ashe backs aid bill, lr to Sen Morse; denies Eisenhower charge that aid implies Fed control
BOSTON, July 9 -- The question of whether Communist party members should be permitted to remain in the teaching profession held the spotlight here this week at the annual summer convention of the National Education Association.
NYS tightens curbs on driving schools; cuts school licenses term to 1 yr; Auto Driving Schools Assn aide H Grossman scores action
Teachers Orgns Joint Com plans legis drive, '50, to raise teachers pay to nearby communities level; Mrs M A Healy comments
NEA comm rept banning Communist teachers scored by Mrs R V Russell, Prof H J Phillips and others; backed by Dr J K Norton and others
Educ Bd approves $42,370,000 priority program for 32 bldgs by '50; C J Bensley comments; 1st 10 bldgs and costs listed
Z Balokovic assails House Un-Amer Activities Com naming of him in its rept on Amer Slav Cong, lr to Repr Wood
1,400 in elementary and special grade classes graduate; Prof Lindeman and M Starr get awards for aid to program
US Lt Gen W D Smith sees indefinite duration, s; sees West stronger and able to sway USSR with firmness backed by strength
Pk Dir denies Mrs M Bunn use of Harlem playground for private party for Harlem Jr HS students
Gen Eisenhower opposes gen aid, lr to Repr Gwinn; favors aid to poor areas contingent on local control
BRILLIANT sun streamed through the fourth floor window. Its beams gently played on the black, tousled hair of 9-year-old Roy Bogas, late of Vienna, who was seated at the concert grand piano. Roy's technical resources diminished the size of the keyboard as he ran through the lyric classicism of the first movement of Mozart's B Flat Piano Concerto.
H W Baldwin says Navy should renounce attempt to take over strategic bombing and USAF give up attempt to take over naval aviation; sees this and common schooling and transfer of clashing officers as aid to defense program
THE Board of Education's frequency modulation station, WNYE, may operate on a shoe-string budget, but it has managed to prove three major promises usually alien to much of professional radio.
Some children love to go to school, or so it is said. Others just go. Those who started in yesterday for the first time hardly know what they think, though no doubt they will. have opinions before the week is out.
Dr W H Strevell study, sponsored by NYS School Bds Assn, stresses current need for state aid
Through recent figures compiled by the Board of Education, the public has been brought face to face with the school problem soon to exist as a result of New York City's record number of births of the past few years. Last year 171,174 birth certificates were filed here, the largest number
The aim of the Harvard University Graduate School of Business Administration -- better known as the Harvard Business School -- is "to train young men for positions of responsibility in private business or in the business of government." How well it has succeeded in that aim is indicated by a striking tribute paid the school with the announcement today that John D. Rockefeller Jr. has contributed $5,000,000 toward a fund-raising campaign for $20,000,000.
From the facts on school crowding conditions affecting a section of Queens as recently presented to the Board of Education, it appears that the city has an immediate obligation to finish construction of the never-completed quarter-century-old Public School 114, at Cronston Avenue and Beach 134th Street, Rockaway Beach.
Years ago to many school children early fall brought "the saddest of the year" days that Mr. Bryant wrote about in the school reader. The wiser youngsters of today, we are told, like to get back to pleasanter school houses than their grandfathers ever dreamed of.
School Librarians Assn aide lr on Feb ed, Pay of Librarians, compares pub and school librarians status; ed note
Many important Changes awaited the 900,000 boys and girls of this city who returned to their classrooms yesterday. Completely keyed to the war program, our school system, still the largest in the world despite a falling registration, is now on an "all-out" basis. During the long summer vacation, while the children and teachers were enjoying a rest, the school heads remained on the job, mapping out a program adapted to the times.
THE New York College of Music is registering students, Mondays through Thursdays from 10 A.M. to 8 P.M., and Fridays and Saturdays from 10 A.M. to 6 P.M. Class instruction begins Saturday.
The question of appropriating Federal funds for educational purposes has been receiving considerable attention lately in academic quarters and in Congress, particularly since passage in the Senate of a bill to provide $300,000,000 a year for the support of public schools; a similar measure is pending in the House.
Some months ago it was occasionally asserted, in calling attention to the shortcomings of our own public schools, that even Russia devoted a larger percentage of national income to education than we did. Those who may have been alarmed by this state of affairs will take comfort, perhaps, from the account of conditions in Soviet schools by Benjamin Fine, based on editorials in Pravda and other information reaching this newspaper.
5th Av Coach Co Pres McCarthy tells of co's Courtesy-and-Safety School for drivers, lr; ed comment
The plans just announced by the Board of Education to intensify "teaching for democratic living" at all levels of the city's public school system should be particularly effective because they call for the vigorous practice of democracy in the schools themselves.
The regular Board of Education meeting will be held on Wednesday at 4 P. M. at 500 Park Avenue. Action on the appointment of several high school principals is expected at this time.
TO THE EDITOR: Anita Brenner, in the superb article, "High School Youth," in the Oct. 26 issue, has written a sincere and worth-while report on American youth, but I would like to take exception to some of her statements.
That tumult and shouting you hear still echoing through New York was the sound of 866,000 school children bursting from their classrooms. Forgotten already are reading, writing and 'rithmetic. Like a vast herd of frolicsome colts, these youngsters are flocking now to the pastures of vacation land.
NEW instructors have been added to the faculty of the Malkin Conservatory of Music in Boston, Mass.  Those appointed to teach in the school music department include William B. Burbank, director of...
PITTSBURGH. SETTING the pace for traffic accident-reduction activities in Pittsburgh, a school program is being conducted this Fall that is reaching every child in every grade of school.
With September at hand the schools of the nation face their third year of war with an increasing shortage of teachers but with a practical approach to the problems that must be met. Despite the fact that there will be less than the normal amount of education, steps are being taken to keep the level as high as possible, and the outlook is not hopeless.
FOR the first time In its history the Institute of Musical Art will offer a four-year course leading to the degree of Bachelor of Science with a major of music.
Last year Governor Lehman asked the Board of Regents to look into the problem of economy in the public schools. The Regents' special commission, headed by County Judge William H. Golding of Schoharie, has just turned in an interim report.
REGISTRATION at the Brooklyn Conservatory of Music, Edward Adolf Whitelaw, director, opens tomorrow. Group work in all departments has been added to the curriculum, with stress on theoretical subjects. Newly added to the faculty are Aurelio Giorni, piano and ensemble; Anthony Paganucci, voice; Fritz Mahler, operatic coaching; Eugene Plotnikoff, orchestration and conducting, and Benno Rabinof, violin.
THE quota of 144 new students admitted annually at the Eastman School of Music has been filled for the coming season. The entrants come from thirty-three States and were chosen from more than 200 applicants. Two hundred and fifty-six students, representing thirty-six States, were recipients of student aid awards from Howard Hanson, director of the school.
The biggest business in this big city is going to school. It happens to be suspended at the moment, but for nine months of the year there are a million and a quarter children engaged in it. It is no longer the simple business of the Three R's. The variety and scope of pupil activity are extraordinary.
At the request of two educational organizations in this city the National Education Association undertook some months ago a study of school conditions in New York. Various charges had been made that the Mayor had exerted his influence to weaken the independence of the Board of Education.
The Commissioner of Education, John W. Studebaker, has urged school supervisors throughout the country to initiate a program of pre-flight aviation training in the 28,000 secondary schools. It is suggested that small schools with relatively few students pool their resources and offer aeronautics as a course in a single school in a local area.
Internatl Business Machines to aid Educ Bd com survey aimed at cutting teachers and admrs paper work; A G Clauson refuses com chmnship
In the inquiry being made by the Regents into the character and cost of public education in the State of New York there is a discussion of the proper size for a school district. The conclusion reached after conferences with school administrators, board members, teachers, parents, taxpayers and others is embodied in the following recommendations:
Two additional parents' groups have been admitted to membership in the United Parents Associations, Mrs. Roger A. Johnson, president, announced. They are the Parents Associations of Public School 46, Bronx, of which Mrs. Herman Schulman is president, and of Public School 102 Bronx, of which Mrs. Celia Brownstein is president.
THE Curtis Institute of Music opens tomorrow for its eighteenth season. New faculty members include Richard Bonelli, Emanuel Feuermann, Mieczyslaw Munz and Gian-Carlo Menotti. The orchestration course given by Samuel Barber starts this Wednesday.
The extent to which our New York City school system is becoming more practical in the sense of fitting certain students with a specific means to earn a living is shown clearly by the report of the vocational department made public by Dr. Campbell.
Auditions for new singers for the Women's Chorus of the New York Madrigal Society, under the direction of Marguerite Potter, will close on Tuesday.
TWO new courses, one in theory and harmony, and another in music appreciation, will be pre-  sented this Fall by the Institute of Avocational Music, an organization sponsored on a non-profit basis by a group of distinguished musicians. Registration is under way for the...
The School Nature League a eighty-third semi-annual exhibit opened yesterday at Public School 21, at 222 Mott Street. The New York Botanical Garden is contributing to the show.
The annual school health day in the public schools will be held Thursday. All academic work will be suspended until all pupils have been observed and tested for acuity of vision, for evidences of eyestrain, defective hearing, defective teeth, malnutrition, obstructed nasal breathing and other evident defects.
The first of a series of reports on the need for making more adequate provision for the training of gifted children in the high schools was made public yesterday by Harold G. Campbell, Deputy Associate Superintendent of Schools. The report deals with the teaching of modern foreign languages, and recommends a two-fold grouping of pupils, with the average and above average in one group and the slow pupils in the other.
The Winter issue of The Bridge, literary publication of Evander Childs High School, the Bronx, has just been published. There are a number of articles, essays and stories in the magazine, which is entered in the Columbia Scholastic Press Association's annual competition.
Fifty alumni of Oberlin College, at a luncheon meeting in the Town Hall Club yesterday, organized a selective admissions committee to help their college recruit additional freshmen from the high schools and preparatory schools of the metropolitan area.
The anniversary of the birth of Benjamin Franklin on Jan. 17 will be observed in the city's public schools with exhibits and demonstrations of printing and assembly and classroom talks on Franklin.
The Graves Report of a Study of the New York City Schools provided, as one of its cardinal recommendations, that all appointments to the teaching supervisory or administrative staff should be made by the Board of Education "on the recommendation of the Superintendent of Schools."
The Republican leaders at Albany are reported to be set to re-enact the Budget Bill today with the original cuts intact.
The College of the City of New York will offer two courses for teachers and others interested in the instruction of adult foreign-born in the public evening schools. Sessions will he held in the Commerce Building. Lexington Avenue and Twenty-third Street, beginning Feb. 4. The Instructor for both courses will be Samuel J. Brown, principal of Evening School 32. Manhattan.
Registration will be continued this week at the Institute for Adult Education of De Witt Clinton High School. Mosholu Parkway and Navy Avenue, the Bronx. In the first three days of registration last week 125 women, or about 60 per cent of the total enrolment last year, were registered. Courses include literature, art, psychology, languages, music, history, economics, civics, biology and science in the home.
The Junior Newman Club of the Washington Irving Evening High School will give a midwinter dance at the Hotel Gotham on the evening of Jan. 30.
There are still 8,000 little "district schools" in the State of New York, with a total attendance of 140,000 children. They are but a small percentage of the entire school population (more than 2,000,000, one-half of whom are in New York City).
More than a million children under college age took their seats in the classrooms of more than 700 school buildings yesterday for the beginning of another school year. The enrolment, by official estimate, would be well over 1,100,000. The attendance, while falling short of this maximum, would not be much below it on opening day.
It is not too much to say that the best and most constant friend the public schools have had through the last forty years has been the Public Education Association. In the early days it was almost or quite alone as an outside agency undertaking to be helpful to the schools through various projects in cooperation with the Board of Education and teacher organizations.
The program of activities of the Child Study Association of America for 1933-34 is ready for distribution, the association announces. It will be mailed on request to the association, 221 West Fifty-seventh St.
Of all the children in the United States between the ages of 7 and 16 (inclusive), 93.9 per cent attended school in 1930, at least for some part of the year. The total number was 21,887,650 and 20,554,778 were in attendance. When the numbers between the ages of 7 and 13 are taken, ...
One of the last acts of the State Legislature before its adjournment was to provide for a joint legislative investigation of two questions relating to the schools.
Courses of study in principles and clinical practice in the correction of speech disorders will be given throughout the year at Hunter College, City College, Fordham University and Brooklyn College, according to an announcement of the speech-improvement department of the Board of Education.
The Adirondack Summer School for Teachers announces a new development in teacher training in the formation of a study camp at Raquette Lake, N.Y., which will devote three hours daily to intensive study and the rest of each flay to sports and other diversions. The studies will cover the high-school curriculum. Dr. Gahriel Mason, principal of the Abraham Lincoln High School, will be the director of the school.
The budget prepared by the Board of Education for 1932 is more than one-fourth of the city's annual outlay for all purposes.
The annual prize essay competition of the Chamber of Commerce of the State of New York has for a topic this year "Why Has New York Become the Metropolis of Our Country and How Can I Help In Its future Development?" The Board of Education points out that essays should be written as soon as feasible, so that reports from individual schools can be sent out OB or before Oct. 24.
The legislative committees eliminated the item of $50,000 for the investigation of the schools of New York City, which was included in the Governor's budget at the instance of the Board of Education and upon the recommendation of the Director of the Budget.
Traditional education, in spite of the precepts of a long line of educational reformers, has always relied too much upon printed words on paper. Formerly educators were satisfied when these words were learned by rote, even though MONTAIGNE warned centuries ago that "to know by heart is not to know."
Adults unemployed are at most a few millions, but five or six times their number unemployed in the Summer months are now employed. They are the 31,000,000 boys and girls and young men and women who in these September weeks will...
THE Roerich Academy of Arts, a cooperating agency of the Na  tional Youth Administration, has founded an Amy Kresel scholarship in piano in honor of the late...
During the last quarter of a century, with its tremendous development of our State and city systems, school administration has grown to be of major importance.
Action by the Board of Education in asking for modification of the continuation school law is a backward step. The proposed amendment would defeat the fundamental purpose of the law, though it seems ...
The advice about " schooling " which disinterested age would normally give to youth is reinforced by these subnormal times.
A Joint meeting of the Metropolitan-New York Branch of the National Academy of Visual Instruction and the visual Instruction section of the Experimental Society of New York City will be held next Friday evening at Education Hall in the Museum of Natural History, Seventy-seventh Street and Central Park West.
Of the more than six hundred licensed broadcasting stations, seventy-seven are owned and operated by educational institutions.
Twenty-three new courses in nine departments will be offered by the Hunter College evening session during the coming term. More than 500 classes are scheduled in the 369 courses included in the curriculum, covering academic, cultural and commercial subjects. Most of the courses, in addition to carrying credit toward degrees, enable teachers to satisfy the "alertness" requirement of the Board of Education.
FSA repts $70 million paid in 5 yrs by disabled persons rehabilitated at cost of $76 million; sees $10 tax return eventually for every $1 spent
Sec Tobin repts gains in past 5 yrs, annual meeting of Pres Truman's com, Washington; cites measures
FSA repts rehabilitated pay back $10 in income tax for each $1 spent on rehabilitation; repts 69,277 placed, '49; puts earnings at $94 million
While insisting that they had largely succeeded in stopping unemployment insurance payments to longshoremen "seeking work" in the Catskill Mountains, and garment workers doing likewise in Miami, state and Federal insurance officials announced yesterday a new for further such plan reducing chiseling.
The Department of Labor's report on employment in January emphasizes the continued activity in trade, converging especially on defense industries. The department's factory employment index, 115.2 per cent of the 1923-25 average, compares with 116.2 in December; but it is the highest of any January on record, and was overtopped only twice by any other month as far back as 1920.
The term "full employment" has been surrounded with a great deal of muddled thinking. Not least confusing has been the tendency to place employment and production in two separate compartments. An outstanding illustration is found in Price Administrator Chester ...
The recent news that some of the nation's leading rail systems have laid off employes as part of a program to reduce expenses came as a surprise to many people largely because they were acquainted only casually with the difficult and uncertain position into which the railroads have been forced by economic and political developments.
Ten industrial concerns, working on Government contracts for materials to be used in this war for democracy, have been ordered by the President's Committee on Fair Employment to "revoke all discriminatory orders submitted to employment agencies and desist from submitting any further discriminatory specifications to any employment agency."
Elsewhere in THE TIMES today we publish the results of a survey of employment conditions conducted by correspondents on the spot in representative cities throughout the nation. These reports come from centers ranging geographically from New England's Boston to Chattanooga, Tenn., in the South; Chicago and St. Louis in the Midwest, Houston, Tex., in the Southwest, and San Francisco and Los Angeles on the Pacific Coast.
The failure of unemployment to show more than a nominal decrease in October is not particularly significant. Unemployment declined to 8,149,000 from 8,196,000 in September, according to the estimate of the National Industrial Conference Board.
The most striking anomaly of the recent business improvement has been the apparent failure of employment to keep pace with the increase in production. A recent chart prepared by the American Federation of Labor, for example, indicates that only about 10 per cent more persons were employed in midsummer of 1935 than in March, 1933.
Contrary to a seasonal trend which almost invariably dips in July, the Labor Department's index of factory employment rose last month by 7.2 per cent. Payrolls increased by 7.9. These gains largely antedated the effort to increase both jobs and wages by means of the NRA.
The seasonal basis of much of the increase in unemployment reported for January by the Social Security Board and the National Industrial Conference Board lends special timeliness to the recent study by the National Association of Manufacturers on employment stabilization.
WASHINGTON, Oct. 3. -- The following table shows employment under the Work Relief program based on reports received through Oct. 3. The difference between the total and those on WPA represents those under other agencies, exclusive of the CCC. Of the latter there were 559,640.
The main interest of current unemployment figures is not historical but symptomatic. That there has been a drop in factory payrolls since the stock market collapse of last October is patent. The latest figures...
In a report published yesterday the National Industrial Conference Board estimated that more than 5,000,000 men and women have gone back to work during the last twelve months. This figure includes, as it properly should, a comparatively small number who are employed on building projects financed with the aid of the Public Works Administration.
In his message to Congress yesterday the President spoke, as if it were a well-known thing, of "our recovery program." He aims specifically to reduce unemployment. For that purpose he makes various recommendations, promising later to produce a "broad public works program."
The Soviet press will lose no time in calling attention to the definite appearance of an unemployment problem in France. That country till a few months ago was the one rock to lift its head above a bourgeois sea of business depression. Now Paris is debating unemployment ...
In the same issue of THE TIMES which carried Mr. OWEN YOUNG'S speech at San Francisco was an announcement by the General Electric Company at Schenectady which has a direct bearing on one of the points he made.
The essence of the plans of the Emergency Employment Committee is well defined as being to "help the man who wants to work."
If Governor BREWSTER of Maine gave the other Governors in their meeting at New Orleans the impression that Mr. HOOVER had endorsed in detail the plan to establish a reserve fund of $3,000,000,000 to be used in times of unemployment, he probably went too far. The telegram which Mr. HOOVER sent can scarcely have been intended to indicate more than approval of bringing the...
The letter of Fred M. Vinson, Director of War Mobilization, to Senator Wagner, chairman of the Senate Banking Committee, "heartily endorses" the "purposes and principles" of the Murray "full employment" bill. If we define...
In August factory employment gained 2.2 per cent, bringing the index of the Department of Labor to 88.7, the highest since September, 1930. Factory payrolls increased during the month 4.1 per cent to 81, the highest since October, 1930. Thus employment continues to improve, though the rate of improvement is still disappointing.
The Federal Reserve Board finds that "in the period immediately ahead it may be expected that the labor market will remain relatively tight.
When Secretary Davis furnished Senator McCORMICK with what he still calls "the actual figures on current unemployment," he might well have furnished also the actual facts-- which he somewhat tardily produced in his lucid and convincing statement of yesterday Seldom has there been...
The unanimity between employers and organized labor which marked the opening phase of the Unemployment Conference is an encouraging sign, but only a sign.
Employment in motor vehicle and parts plants in 1936 gained 3 per cent over 1929 and the industry's employment stabilization program succeeded in increasing greatly the percentage of employes working forty-six or more weeks during the model year.
Indus relations section of Princeton Univ issues lists of books, pamphlets, and magazine articles dealing with regularization of indus employment
It is not surprising that Secretary PERKINS intends to do away with the United States Employment Service, organized under the Hoover Administration. Senator WAGNER has long inveighed against it. As State Industrial Commissioner of New York Miss PERKINS had an opportunity closely to observe its shortcomings.
OTTAWA, Ontario, Feb. 28 (by the Canadian Press).--There was an increase in employment at the beginning of February, although the situation still was affected to some extent by inventory shutdowns and, more ...
WASHINGTON, Dec. 1 -- A small seasonal gain of about 60,000 raised non - agricultural employment to the record level of nearly 46,000,000 in mid-October, the Bureau of Labor Statistics reported today.
WMC curbs employment of those under 14 as part of hired labor force; opposes 14-15-yr-olds employment in any job if qualified older workers are available
ALBANY, June 23 (AP).--Retail stores in New York State reported seasonal losses of 0.6 per cent in employment and 0.1 per cent in payrolls in May, the State Labor Department announced today. Wholesale firms reported no change over the previous month in employment, but noted a 2 per cent gain in payrolls.
Reductions in employment by five Northeastern manufacturers, affecting upward of 1,000 workers, were announced yesterday.
THE idea of an employment agency is not particularly new. In fact, it  appears to be quite ancient. Among the records found in the ruins of Senkereh (the ancient Larsa) are small clay lumps indicating that the temple of Larsa found employment for laborers and for women servants.
The number of persons employed in German industry in July was 10.2 per cent more than in the same month of 1936, but compared with June, there was a decline in the number of hours worked. Industrial employment for the first time exceeds 7,000,000.
MILWAUKEE, Sept. 1. -- Settlement of the American Newspaper Guild strike at The Wisconsin News was negotiated by a committee of four set up by the Milwaukee Federated Trades Council which met with J.H. Black, manager of the newspaper, during the last week.
C A Reynolds arrested as one of 2 operating fraudulent employment office, on complaint of H Depa
We alluded some time since to the plan outlined by the President of the British Board of Trade for insurance against unemployment. Some particu lars of it are now furnished by Consul General GRIFFITHS of London. It will be compulsory, contributory, and confined to such traces as are from time to time included in it, beginning with those that have suffered the most marked fluctuations, building, shipbuilding, and construction work generally.
Employment in the silk industry declined 11.7 per cent in January as compared with January, 1930, and 3.8 per cent as compared with December, the Silk Association of America, Inc., reported yesterday.
Supreme Court of N J confirms constitutionality of law empowering State Comr of Labor to issue licenses
The story of what this community did during the months from October, 1930, to July, 1931, through voluntary effort and contribution to meet unemployment should be ...
ALBANY, July 17 -- Large numbers of workers in aircraft and shipbuilding plants in New York State were laid off in the period from middle of May to the middle of June, depressing the employment figures 1.3 per cent, with a decline of 0.7 per cent in payrolls, according to Edward Corsi, Industrial Commissioner.
"Frictional" unemployment, the kind that marked the post-war period, is likely to persist and may even increase if a full employment economy is maintained in the next decade, Ewan Clague, Commissioner of Labor Statistics, warned last night.
WASHINGTON, Feb. 20--The Employment Bill of 1946, the Congressional compromise version of the Administration's "full employment bill," was signed into law by President Truman today with the ...
Not long since a young man made application for employment. This is so commonplace an incident in human experience as not to call for special notice. But as this particular young man was in some sense a type of a large class, the nature of his application is of unusual interest.
Brit experts in Washington see House of Lords action as approving experts statement and committing GB to principles: cheap money advocated in Brit post-war employment White Paper
Gov Bowles urges removal of tax on 4 commodities, New Eng area, and end of transportation and communications taxes
ACTORS' EQUITY ASSOCIATION is identified in labor jargon as an "open" union. That is, anyone -- irrespective of talent, training or intent -- qualifies for membership merely by obtaining a job in the field. By job is meant any job -- minor or stellar, running three nights or three years. * * *
WASHINGTON, Aug. 10 -- The National Federation of American Shipping called today for enactment of a long-range shipping legislative program to alleviate unemployment in twelve coastal shipping centers.
Labor Ministry rept on personnel in armed forces and aux services at end of June, '46
WASHINGTON, Dec. 13 -- The texts made public today of the statement by sixteen Southern railroads to the President's Committee on Fair Employment Practices and the reply of Malcolm Ross, chairman of the committee, were as follows:
WHENEVER the problem of the unemployed comes up for casual discussion somebody always offers the universal panacea, "Why don't they go to the country? Lots of work there." And if the conversation turns to immigration, it is the same thing: "What makes them all crowd into the cities?"
Following a national trend, durable goods industries in the New York area gave local employment its biggest boost during the period from 1939 to 1947, according to a study of the industries of this area by the National Industrial Conference Board, released for publication today.
U S Employment Service forbids State affiliates to provide workers to co where labor dispute exists
IN 1900 there were 6,000,000 unemployed workers in the United States. These are the latest available figures of the Federal census, and they show an increase of 8 per cent. of unemployment over those for 1890. With all the work that needs to be done in this busy land there ought not to be one unemployed man or woman who is willing and able to work.
PHILADELPHIA, May 22.--The Reserve Bank reports for Pennsylvania a decrease in the number employed, but an increase in wages paid during April, due to longer hours of employment.
LONDON, July 16--The number of persons employed in manufacture for Britain's home and export markets increased by 277,000 during May, according to a Ministry of Labor report.
Natl Wool Mfrs Assn repts drop in apparel cloth output rate, Apr and May; repts on consumption, Jan-Apr; repts 7% drop in industries employment, Jan-May
Machinery has widened employment most effectively by stimulating the growth of new industries, and we ought not to underestimate its effect in this direction, since it has an important bearing on the general question. Improvements in printing presses had a direct effect in extending the use of books and newspapers, and, therefore, in expanding the paper and printing industries.
Raymond M. Hilliard, Welfare Commissioner, was sworn in by Mayor O'Dwyer yesterday as chairman of a twel e-man committee, whose members were appointed at the same time, to assist displaced persons arriving here.
PROVIDENCE, R.I., Aug. 7.--The blowing out of the cylinder of an engine at the Wanskuck Woolen Mill this morning will make necessary the shuting a down of nearly two-thids of the mill for about a month, throwing 500 persons out of employment.
With the expansion of total civilian and military employment to the record total of 59,200,000, the labor shortage became acute in September as current and anticipated labor stringencies were disclosed in an increasing number of areas and in a growing number of key industries, the National Industrial Conference Board reported yesterday.
USES repts employment ratio at 5 workers to 1 job, NYC; regional dir O'Connor estimates unemployment
BOSTON, June 9--New England is in an enviable position on employment. The initial impact of military cutbacks in the wake of the end of the European war has been relatively light.
hons H L Hopkins, new cloak and suit indus impartial chmn and J J Walker, retiring chmn
ATLANTA, June 14 -- Many small towns in the Southeastern States appear today to be threatened with large-scale out-migrations, because of heavy proportions of unemployment and serious imbalances between employment of men and of women workers.
POTTSVILLE, Penn., Feb. 16. -- Orders were issued to-day by the Philadelphia and Reading Coal and Iron Company to work the collieries of the company six three-quarter days next week instead of three, which has been the programme during the Winter.
HARTFORD, Conn., March 17.--The House to-day finally passed the bill concerning the employment of children, which has been one of the leading measures advocated by the labor organizations of the State.
Two years ago the Charity Organization Society of this city started a wood yard, which has proved a great auxiliary to their work.
R C Brockway named WMC regional employment chief, NY area; to continue as NYS USES dir
SAN FRANCISCO, March 31-- Although four West Coast shipyards this week notified the President's Committee on Fair Employment Practice of compliance with its directives concerning Negro workers, and the racial issue ...
Your editorial of May 28 entitled "When Governments 'Plan'" purports to comment upon a proposed bill to implement the Employment Act of 1946 by promoting continuing economic stability and growth and thereby averting extremes in the national economy.
CHATTANOOGA, Tenn., July 9 -- For the first time this year United States Employment Service offices reported that men were being called back to their jobs. In the Chattanooga area, which has been somewhat typical of the Deep South, unemployment rolls were reduced by some 500.
Min Morrison hopes forthcoming White Paper will include plan based on Beveridge rept; says success will depend on employment
BOSTON, May 25--The signing into law this week of the fair employment practices measure for Massachusetts brought from many quarters the renewed prediction that the act would be tossed out in the first test before the courts.
Production and employment in the furniture industry increased in 1935 as compared with 1933, the biennial census of manufacturers of the Department of Commerce revealed today.
Employment in the steel industry during July recovered completely from the effects of the June strikes, and rose to 594,000, only 0.25 per cent below the record total of 595,000 employes in May, according to the American Iron and Steel Institute.
J B Andrews' attack unwarranted; practices which caused complaint are being eliminated; lr by J C Valle
BERLIN, Nov. 20. -- Although the German steel market continues active, the annual report of the important Gutehoffnung Corporation asserts that the international cartel has failed entirely in its avowedly chief object of maintaining remunerative prices.
The Labor Bureau's general index of manufacturing employment in November, published yesterday, compares with preceding months and years, with the three-year average of 1923-25 taken as 100, as follows:
Natl Union of Mineworkers exec com agrees to permit use of Polish miners if they join union
PHILADELPHIA, Feb. 2. -- Government loans are increasing industrial employment in this Reserve district.
Fighting was resumed both by the Germans in Russia and by the United States troops in the Solomon Islands, but no important engagement occurred.
The Christian Aid to Employment Society was incorporated yesterday. The managers are the Rev. Dr. George Alexander, the Rev. Dr. Charles F. Deems, the Rev. Dr. Matthew H. Pogson, the Rev. Dr. John W. Shackelford, A.S. Hatch, Frederick Wilder, and the Rev. Willard Parsons.
12 of freighter Bonito crew file libel charging they were told ship would not carry war cargo, S I
Never before in the history of labor has there been such an opportunity for men past fifty to have the employment suited to their class as to no other than right now. All that is necessary to give such men employment and to greatly subserve the public safety and welfare is for automobile owners to employ chauffeurs of any age past fifty.
The Essex Market Police Court was filled with Polish Jews yesterday afternoon. As many as could get within the rail were clamoring to make complaints against Charles Bringer, who said that he kept an employment office at 171 Eldridge-street.
R M Neustadt repts shortage of experienced statistical analysts to aid firms in administration of act
The difficulty of finding employment for convicts of a more rational and profitable kind than the crank and shot drill is still present to the Directors of Convict Prisons.
ALBANY, Jan. 28--The key phases of the legislation proposed today for creation of a Permanent State Commission to eliminate racial and religious discrimination in employment are Sections 131 and 127.
LaGuardia repts he has ordered police to hold professional gamblers unless they have or accept bonafide and lawful work; link with Magistrate Kross action seen, NYC
Employment Agencies Council of N Y opposes legis to transfer control to N Y S Dept of Labor
Sends message to Legis recommending approval of new agreement between Albany and Rensselaer Counties on allocation of cost of 2 bridges
Justice Pecora denies Acorn Employment Agency plea for injunction against Comr Moss' regulation, N Y C
The neat little white-walled chapel of the Manhattan Mission, at No. 420 East Twentysixth-street, was filled with patrons and converts last evening in honor of the completion of the first year of its existence.
PHILADELPHIA, Dec. 6.--As foretold inthese dispatches, the troubles between the manufacturing shoemakers and their employes culminated to-day in a general stoppage and the throwing out of employment of at least 5,000 operatives--men, women, and girls.
drafts plan to distribute critical materials to civilian industry on high priority basis; amt of guaranteed employment to be allocation factor
LaGuardia backs Digiovanna bill to permit employment of alien drs, nurses and internes because of expected Fed drain
Need for changing system to accommodate woman war worker discussed; A J Altmeyer on disadvantages of present State-by-State system to servicemen's working wives who follow husbands
Within the last two or three years we have heard that relief was robbing the recipients of initiative, and that men on relief no longer wanted to work. This is only partly true.
ALBANY, Aug. 12.--Working forces in factories of the State were further reduced by 2 per cent. last month, according to a report made public tonight by the State Industrial Commission.
The Mayor yesterday investigated the charges preferred by Mrs. Eliza Archard Conner, a newspaper writer, against Mrs. Rosa H. Underhill, ...
Stockholders to vote on absorption of McCall Co and New Pub Co and renewal of contracts with officials
Survey by Children's Bur shows very few children of 14 and 15 still holding full-time jobs
WASHINGTON, Dec. 25.--The employment situation is encouraging and prospects are bright for the remainder of the Winter, according to a survey just completed by the employment service of the Department of Labor. Nearly all States reported a condition much better than at ...
Although the making of definite contracts with shopworkers has been officially opposed even in the coat and suit industry, there are leading men in that business who see in them the solution of some of the present labor problems.
Resolved to send telegram to Congress urging it to pass appropriation necessary to carry on Employment Service
PITTSBURG, Penn., Nov. 28.--It is stated here that President Kline, of the Glass-workers' Association, who has been in New-York for some time, has about closed an agreement with several ...
The Memorial and Executive Committee of the Grand Army of the Republic of Kings County have established a bureau of employment, for the purpose of assisting deserving soldiers and sailors of the late war in securing occupation in which they may be fairly rewarded ...
NAM Pres I Mosher urges holding of taxes to level which will not discourage individual endeavor
Being one of the Belgians who has been driven out by the Germans and received the hospitality of England, I would like to do something which I do not think has yet been done. That is, to thank the American nation for the great generosity and goodness they have shown to the Belgians and the way they have shown their sympathy with a nation in trouble.
RADIO industrialists who have been in Washington formulating plans to comply with the National Industrial Recovery Act report-that employment and not price-fixing is the hub around which the various spokes in the wheel of prosperity must revolve.
5,000,000 persons without employment, 15,000,000 living on charity, according to Minister of Labor Brauns, corroborated by Herr von Nostritz-Wallwitz, head of Berlin Work Comm
TOPEKA, Dec. 29 -Labor is having a honeymoon in building defense projects, high wages luring thousands. To some extent it softens the relief burden, but that of course is not permanent. Stimulation of industry by defense spending generally is expected to continue through the next year, and trade which has lagged has a prospect of betterment.
WASHINGTON, Dec. 23 -- Seasonal drops in employment in some soft goods industries and the secondary effects of the steel strike nearly offset the return of striking coal and steel workers between mid-October and mid-November, according to Bureau of Labor Statistics estimates.
Ruling referred to Appellate Div on Comr Moss' right to suspend licenses of Wehinger Service, Corporate Service and Natl Employment Exch for refusing to divulge names of employers specifying Anglo-Saxons for jobs, N Y C
Employment in the steel industry averaged 566,300 persons daily during February, comparing with 564,000 in January and with 583,000 ...
Decree of Minister of Labor authorizes system of loans for public or private undertakings providing work for unemployed persons
Fair employment practices office and procedures set up for dept personnel; T Winslow apptd fair employment officer
The monthly statement of the Philadelphia Federal Reserve Bank said today that employment in factories in Delaware showed virtually no change from October to November, but that wage payments increased about 1 per cent.
Bill authorizing Postmaster Gen to contract for carrying, and authorizing employment of civilian aviators signed by Pres Coolidge
CLEVELAND, March 4.--Employment at 100 Cleveland plants at the end of February was practically un-changed from January, there being ...
Estimates of the National Industrial Conference Board, made public last night, showed a 2.3 per cent increase in unemployment during November, with 8,968,000 persons out of work as against 8,770,000 in October.
Appellate Term upholds const of legis limiting fees, case of Abbye Employment Agency Inc vs O Robinson
WORLD FEDERATION OF TRADE UNIONS (WFTU): S Hillman arrives, Southampton, GB, en route to Paris organization conf
OPM labor div confs on displaced Paterson, N J, silk and rayon workers draw up program for re-employment in other industries; preferential hiring and easing of requirements included; plan to be used as model if successful
Class I railroads employed 1,008,037 persons in December, a decrease of 6.80 per cent from the same month in 1936 and a decline of 4.93 per cent from November, 1937, the Interstate Commerce Commission announced today.
Mrs J M Lindlof makes recommendations for relieving situation in s before Kindergarten to 6B Teachers' Assn
The public does not seem to be fully aware of the noble work which the accident insurance companies are doing. While private philanthropists feebly attempt to alleviate the distress of the unemployed poor by alms-giving and the gratuitous distribution of soup tickets, the accident companies offer to furnish every man who really desires to work with easy and lucrative employment.
RICHMOND, May 2. -- A shortage of labor in many parts of the Fifth District is reported by the Richmond Bank, which says the improvement in employment conditions for the six weeks ended April 15 was the best for any similar period since the beginning of the depression.
I read with much interest the account in THE TIMES to-day of the meeting held at the Waldorf-Astoria for the purpose of raising a fund for aiding the blind securing employment. The schools for the blind educate pupils supposedly for the purpose of taking care of themselves, and if a pupil actually graduates from one of these schools he is as well equipped in his line to render efficient service as any person possessing sight.
Employes in the steel industry in August averaged 647,000, compared with 655,000 in July, according to the American Iron and Steel Institute. In August last year approximately 654,000 employes were at work in the industry. Steel company payrolls in August amounted to $118,718,000, compared with $120,671,000 in July and $112,757,000 in August, 1941.
International Stereotypers and Electrotypers Union files injunction suit in Superior Court in Chicago against C Meyer
Anent THE TIMES'S editorial, "Work for the Middle-Aged," it is doubtful whether the statistical data of 1910 and 1920 can throw any light on the present situation, because employment was at a very high peak during the war and in 1920 had not yet receded to the pre-war level.
TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES: Your editorial of July 24, "Wages and Prices," expressed the view that wage increases had aggravated inflation and would prevent price reductions on the ground that "high consumer incomes" make possible "the sale of goods and services at the higher prices required to cover higher costs."
THE National Women's Trade Union League of America has  issued a call to the women labor leaders in foreign countries to foregather in Washington for an  international labor congress of working women during the week before the big International Labor Conference is held.
De Forest audion amplifier, by means of which wireless messages were heard through ordinary telephone receiver, demonstrated
I am sure that if the reasoning of the article on "Labor's Cruelty to Labor" which appeared in to-day's issue of THE TIMES showed a closer acquaintance with the character of the demands of the Ladies' Waistmakers' Union and what the "recognition of the union" for which we are struggling means, it certainly would not have ascribed to Miss O'Reilly's contentions any cruelty to labor in general or to female labor in particular.
trustees set pub hearing on plans to provide for 151,000 more students by '66; Dr Eurich comments
Hebrew Univ in Jerusalem to get science books as part of US Govt 'perpetual loan' collection
Graduate School Alumni Assn election; Prot D L Stone pres; Prof H Shapeley and Dr J Creese among apptmts to bd
last 2 tenants on block acquired for Law Center quit ors; foundation work to start, Jan; Dean Niles comments
Dr E Redslob asks Internatl Educ Inst to facilitate exch of ideas between US and Ger
Suspends 2 student clubs after near-fatal outcome of liquor spree during initiation; Acting Pres de Klewiet comments
Columbia and NYU deny facilities to proposed inter-collegiate student conf; Common Cause Youth Div group sees conf as Communist propaganda outlet
univ gets $5,000 from Netherlands Amer and Belgian Amer Educ foundations for graduate course in internatl econ cooperation
17-yr-old J E Nelson is 1st to pass coll placement tests qualifying him for graduate work without taking BA
citizens com asks Gov Dewey to back state aid for bldg and operating costs; he favors project; cites financial difficulties
Broome County bd offers $1 million toward setting up 4-yr coll, Triple Cities area; offer is 1st cash bid for local coll; Dr Eurich comments; Syracuse Univ to give Triple Cities Coll facilities; T J Watson offers land
Dr E H van Delden apptd Prof of Indus Relations at Commerce and Graduate Business Adm schools
Amer Civil Liberties Union of N Calif pamphlet charges loyalty-oath program for faculty violates acad freedom; 20 to 25% of staff fail to sign oath; acad sens com to conf with Regents on issue
605 sophomores demand eating clubs extend bids to all seeking election; Prof R S Lind, Daily Princetonian and others back demand; some club members fear compliance may overtax facilities; J C Parham cites figures scouting fear
Chicago conf on preparation, sponsored by US Educ Office and Amer Educ Council, moves to set up permanent comm on preparation
Harvard dir W Bingham says univ will adopt more conservative policy; to confine schedule to Ivy League; attacks Penna alleged state athletic scholarships; says Harvard must share expense of athletic programs; provost calls rept premature
univ gets $50,000 as last payment of Mrs E M A Ralston bequest for Steinmetz Fund
Mrs F Altschul replaces Dean McIntosh as natl chmn of fund drive com; W Aldrich hon chmn
Conv, Syracuse; election; Dr E N Case pres; Dr G N Shuster re-elected to exec com
Harvard Teachers Union joins 3 undergrad groups in scoring NROTC oath requiring students to rept 'subversive' classmates; Provost Buck and Capt C Bonney comment
US businessmen's group conf, NYC, on establishing Japan Internatl Christian Univ; project backed by J C Grew and Sec Acheson
Mural returned to student lounge; H Collins to resume work; 49 named to Hall of Fame Electors Coll
Graduate School of Business Adm Baker Library gets daily record since '29 of Thompson Products mgt-labor relations
gets over $150,000 for development fund; gifts include $50,000 from L J Rosenwald for proposed med center and $45,000 from J Scherman and J F Lewis for new library
student group charges unfinished mural by graduate student H Collins for Educ School student lounge is communist propaganda; Student Council comments
Asks NJ for $1.5 million, '50-51; seeks to cut tuition $210 a yr; Provost Gross says current fees bar qualified NJ residents; $10-million bldg program noted
C C Samossoud to bequeath M Twain papers; Regents to accept gifts toward chair of literature and library hon Twain
Counsel for 10 facing eviction to ask jury trial; may appeal to Sup Ct if tenants lose plea
The financial report of the Board of Higher Education for the year ended June 30, 1949, is an interesting document, and especially worthy of attention now in connection with the nationwide studies under way for sounder financing of higher education. A considerable broadening of the base of support of the city's four colleges is noted.
Enrollments at the American colleges and universities are still increasing, according to reports from all sections of the country. This fall there are 1,862,465 men and women attending the nation's 790 liberal arts institutions, compared with 1,822,037 a year ago -- a gain of 2 per cent.
Higher Educ Bd '48-49 financial rept; asks $3 million to raise faculty pay; J H Cain says average pay rose 35.4% since '40
Min Tsaldaris pledges Greek Govt aid in establishment; Pres Eisenhower stresses univ freedom in its orgn, lr
W D Gillen succeeds J A Mayer as dir of $2-million alumni fund drive for new Wharton School
Annual meeting, NYC; election; Dr I S Wechsler pres; Justice Frankfurter, Dr A S W Rosenbach and Mrs F M Warburg made hon presidents; Prof Einstein re-elected natl council chmn
Sen Kilgore urges Joint Cong Com to allow added exemptions for parents with children in coll
Dr. J E M Thomson urges drs use Kuntscher nail technique in fractures to speed mobility; Dr R Anderson describes bone crumb method of grafting
Retailing School Merchant's Advisory Council exec com election; J S Schoff pres; new council members chosen
Southern Conf Educ Fund poll of 3,375 Southern teachers show 70% oppose segregation in professional and graduate schools
Prof S E Harris article on crisis; sees soc and pol effects; urges drive for gifts, more econ use of personnel and insts consol as means to solve crisis; illus
Dr L D Edie elected trustee succeeding W T C Carpenter; D A Forward replaces latter as finance com chmn
Near East program made beneficiary of King Ibn Saud Fund for Arabic Studies created by Arabian-Amer Oil Co
Amb Erkin calls Govt most stable in Near East; US Asst Sec Allen and J C Grew laud gains in pol freedom, Amer-Turkish Soc dinner, NYC
L B Granger sees vast gains in fight on segregation; urges Negro youth now work for assimilation in community life
Dr W H Baker says Pres Lee refused G W Armstrong offer of $5 million if school would bar Jewish students
R C Morey to lead NYC met area fund drive in bldg and development program; C P Goes made exec com chmn
L Filene Professorship of Retailing set up with $300,000 from Fed Dept Stores and L and T Filene Foundation
Ex-Sen Wagner's pub and private papers presented; Pres Guthrie, H H Lehman and others s; Wagner lr on reasons for gift; archives to be basis for biog by faculty member
C B Hughes to head orgn of alumni, NYC, in fund drive to set up atomic research center
Educ Office repts 423,000 degrees granted, '48-49; cites record rise on graduate and professional levels; '49-50 outlook
Drs J B and R M Graham see therapy aid in possibility of altering individual radio-sensitivity; 5 scientists see aureomycin possible aid
Dr J D Russell outlines $300-million program to aid 480,000; urges terms bar discrimination against minorites
Drs H Rheinlander and R E Gross rept antibiotics aid preservation in banks for transplanting in human beings
Gets $300,000 from C H Reisinger for Professorship of Slavic Languages and Literature in Prof S H Cross hon
gets official NYC welcome; parade illus; gets Columbia Univ hon degree; s on Indian policies; text
com of alumni, students, faculty and others to rev soc activities in face of record regis
Alumni reprs meet; hear '48-49 deficit was $526,000; P S Bush sees $1-million income drop, '49-50; urges alumni aid in capital program
Founders day conv; trustees bd meets; election; R C Morris pres; F Herrigel, Rev R W Lyon and Bishop L C Wicke made trustees
Assoc Prof R A Parker made Romance Languages Dept chmn, Arts and Pure Science Coll, succeeding Prof Heaton
Fed Chs of Christ Council files brief, Sup Ct, asking rev of H M Sweatt-Texas Univ case
Gets $3 million from Kresge Foundation for med research inst bldg; med center plans $20 million expansion program
Dr H W Dodds urges greater stress on liberal arts instead of vocational and profession educ, s, Queens Coll; says humanities study is weapon against totalitarianism
Venerable Harvard graduates tell of a time when any woman crossing the Yard -- even a scrub woman with a pail and mop, bound on her lawful errands -- was greeted with coyotelike howls from every available window. This is not the case today. Women can now take graduate work at Harvard, or, under Harvard professors, at Radcliffe, in the arts and sciences, engineering, medicine, dentistry, public health, architecture, education, public administration and business management.
Dr O Odlozilik apptd to T G Masaryk Chair of Czech Studies to succeed Dr Jakobson
In the editorial on "Our State University'' in THE NEW YORK TIMES on Oct. 1 the question of a low tuition fee is mentioned.
Law School leases Lafayette Hotel to relocate tenants ousted from Washington Sq South block; Dean Niles comments
outlook poor for new funds for more insts, '50-51; some see univ endangered; Pres Eurich sees ltd expansion
Communist party exec M Rybicki scores lack of teachers trained in Marxism; blames Youth Orgn, party and those Communist students who neglect studies for pol activity; cites Jagiellonian Univ, Cracow
Regents appts special com to conf with faculty reprs in face of faculty protests to loyalty oaths
M Reynolds-B Odom Aeronautical Fellowship Fund initiated; Reynolds and Amer Mech Engineers Soc Chicago sec offer funds
US coll students returning from work camps tell of Ger failure to apply religious principles to life
Peiping Higher Educ Comm reptdly chooses Premier Stalin work on dialectical materialism as basic text for certain N China colls
Dr Tead on possible loyalty tests for teacher trainees; Dr Anderson on regis in educ programs
Senator Pat McCarran, chairman of the Senate committee that has tied up all moves to liberalize the existing displaced-persons law, sailed for Europe yesterday to study the displaced-persons situation in several countries.
Profs E Artin, H Rademacher and C Siegel named visiting profs, '49-50, Math and Mechanics Inst; Dr B Friedman made Assoc Prof, Washington Sq Coll
Israeli compromise plan on city adm reptd; favors UN supervision of holy places and free access for pilgrims from Arab states and RC coll students
Dr Penrose protests reptd US threat to halt aid unless Israel and Arabs reach accord; backs resettlement outside Palestine
subcom hearing; Amer Middle East Relief repr G M Barakat and Arab-Amer Affairs Inst pres J G Hazam testify; Barakat charges Celler with pol; urges term DP be re-defined to cover 10,000 Arabs
Educ School offers hs counselors, students and parents tours, NYC met area, to facilitate selecting colls
F A Mason Jr wins scholarship to NYS Indus and Labor Relations School donated by AFL elec workers union local 3 to hon Rev W J Kelley
Dean Niles halts razing, 40 Washington Sq, to insure tenants safety in 41; Sup Ct sets hearing on tenants injunction plea; univ asks Munic Ct order to evacuate remaining 5 tenants
tenant N Boardman wires NYU, builders and Housing Dept to protest demolition next her apt; halted
Foreign Service School to open Languages and Linguistics Inst; Profs L Dostert and J Deny made dir and vice dir; Rev Dr Walsh comment
As the City Planning Commission began yesterday laying the groundwork for preparation of the city's 1950 capital budget one moderately cheerful note was struck. The Board of Education, leading off the departmental explanations of budget requests, was able to report a modest decrease in cubic foot construction costs.
Drs P Charanis, A H Clark, R P Reece made profs; J F Hauck named marketing research specialist
Rev Dr R E Diffendorfer repts on Internatl Christian Univ formation progress; fund drive planned, US and Canada; Dr H Yuasa elected univ pres
progress lags on Tex State Univ for Negroes; unexpended $175,000 and H A Barnett NAACP-backed suit to enter Tex Univ Med School raise doubt state will provide complete professional facilities; middle-rd group backs separate, equal facilities; Prairie View A&M Coll discussed
Niles repts univ talks with Sailor's Snug Harbor, NYC and realtors on using old Brevoort and Lafayette hotels and other places for displaced tenants
bldg razing for Law Center, Washington Sq, starts; area and Center model illus; Dean Niles on plans and tenants relocation
UN Trusteeship Council com holds univ for trust areas impractical; urges Belgium, GB and France set up several by '52
3 Alpha Delta Sigma coll chaps get awards for sample pub service campaigns on Ad Council projects
Shanghai indus reprs discuss mass migration into interior; over half of factories reptd at standstill because of raw material shortage due to blockade
Very Rev V J Flynn holds Communists are its enemies; would bar them as teachers, US
Falange urges Govt close univ; calls it center of pol agitation; Pres Penrose comments; 3 pubs defend inst
Young Progressives of Amer chap rally against alleged racial and religious bias; Mrs P Robeson s
N Thomas urges US work for world arms cut to bring forces down to police size
Rev H K Beebe apptd Chapel asst dean and Student Christian Assn dir succeeding Rev MacLean
NAM sec N Sargent says Amer private capital is set to invest $2 billion abroad provided climate is right; offers plan for model pact; he and S Braden oppose Govt plan to guarantee new investments
ECA div dir E T Dickinson Jr stresses unity as only recovery hope, s, Colgate; outlines program
Greater NY Council for Foreign Students wires inst heads to back Reprs Judd and Mansfield bills to use $4 million from ECA to aid Chinese; Gen Eisenhower sympathetic
Higher Educ Bd, 12-1, upholds Dr Lorch and Prof Swadesh dismissals; finds no race or religious bias involved; both plan legal actions
Amer Assn of Univ Women votes, 2,168-68, to admit Negroes; Washington, DC, branch secedes in protest
Law Center Foundation gets 18 apts for Washington Sq South tenants; tenants counsel cites rejection of others
Mrs A C Swain is 1st woman trustee; 3 others elected to bd; bldg fund rept; ground broken for dining hall; assoc alumni meets; E M Arnold gets award
I'm somewhat amazed at the space THE TIMES of July 2 accorded to a letter from Washington concerning action taken at Seattle by the Convention of the American Association of University Women.
Regents Bd prescribes loyalty oaths for faculty and adm; oath text; Pres Sproul to conf with Acad Sen on move
commencement plans; Dr M W Gross apptd provost; Alumni Assn election; J H Johnston re-elected pres; 3 elected to Alumni Fed Govs Bd
The idea of founding a new university is always alluring, especially in these years of overcrowded dormitories and bulging classrooms. The University of Westchester Sponsoring Committee, an organization of business ...
BLOOMINGTON, Ind., Feb. 19 (AP) -- Alvin N. (Bo) McMillin notified Indiana University officials by telephone today that he had signed with the Detroit Lions and wished to be relieved of his contract as I.U. coach and athletic director.
In mid-July, 1946, Governor Dewey appointed a thirty-member commission to study the need for a state university. That commission, established by the Legislature and headed by Owen D. Young, has now reported that there is such a need. It finds that by 1960 additional four-year facilities to accommodate 30,000 full-time students may be needed in the state.
The golden jubilee of the Catholic University of America, celebrated last night in New York at a banquet of its Alumni Association, deserves wide and grateful commemoration. Sixty per cent of the teachers in American Catholic
In 1933, year of the induction of the New Barbarism in Europe and of the book burnings, Dr. Alvin Johnson conceived the plan of what is known affectionately as The University in Exile. Here freedom of inquiry was restored to the banished scientists and scholars of Germany, Italy, Austria, Czecho-Slovakia, Spain.
To the visitor in London the university that bears the name of the city consists of colleges and schools scattered about the metropolis and in a sense fugitive. The University of London was founded in 1836, and admitted women to all degrees in 1878. About 8,000 students are on the rolls, but more than 20,000 "external students" present themselves for examination only.
There is a valid reason "why Negroes should be doing Ibsen, or any 'white' play." The fact that Negroes can do Ibsen is a tribute not only to the interpretative powers of the student drama group but also to the genius of Ibsen.
The State of New York has a university without either faculty or students of its own. But in its official authority it embraces all the educational agencies of the State, from the kindergarten to the university. It possesses chartered children even beyond the bounds of the Empire State: in Syria, Brazil, China and other parts of the earth.
US group leaves for summer study, Israel, under Hebrew Univ in Jerusalem and Jewish Agency auspices
President BUTLER'S annual reports have to do not only with Columbia University but with higher education in general. Most prominent in this year's report is the picture of the modern type of university carrying the legend "The Wider University."
Within the next month or so 25,000 German prisoners, "processed" at Fort Eustis, Va., and elsewhere, will go back to Germany pledged to support democracy as "a conscious way of living of practical, decent and successful people."
When JAMES BRYCE, fifty years ago, was gathering material for "The American Commonwealth" he found that there were not more than twelve and "possibly only eight or ...
A far-reaching change in the liberal arts courses of the University of Wisconsin will go into operation next Fall. The chief difficulty at Madison has been to maintain a high standard among the constantly increasing number of students.
Incorporation of St. Stephen's College as a constituent part of Columbia University is not a novel procedure. Oxford and Cambridge have each many colleges. Toronto University has several colleges and two theological schools grouped around the State College and under the aegis of the university.
At the dedication of the Sterling Library of Yale, Dr. PUTNAM, Librarian of Congress, stated that, exclusive of the New York and Boston public libraries, the Library of Congress and six endowed, closely reserved collections, four-fifths of the books "of serious import to scholars"
The University Presses of Pennsylvania and Oxford have published a work that should be dear to dondom and students, happily emancipated from it, who are interested in the processes of earlier mills than those that ground them out-- exceeding small.
The appeal of the University of Chicago is for an additional endowment that will permit a larger investment in its teaching and research Faculty, or, as it has been put, in "men." Chicago University has a secure footing on which to stand in making this appeal not only to its alumni but to the country at large, and especially to the Middle West.
Co-education has been accepted as a natural method of training in our State universities and in many of our colleges, especially beyond the Alleghanics, where separate provision for young men and women was in the early days impracticable. But it has been put to an unusual test in the association of the two aboard a ship.
Hebrew Univ in Jerusalem gets $100,000 fellowship fund from Mrs F M Warburg in Dr J L Magnes hon
The State of New York has now a frontier higher educational fortress in the University of Buffalo. Within the last. two three years many millions have been raised for it locally, and yes- ...
rejects WAA offer of Army installation, Canton, NY; sees property title still not clear by '69
The National War Labor Board is at last coming to recognize that such phrases as "substandard" wages and "inequalities" in wages need precise limitation if they are not to become loopholes so large as to destroy any wage stabilization formula. The Board recently adopted a "short-cut method" and a series of "simple yardsticks" to speed up the handling of voluntary requests for wage and salary changes before the Regional War Labor Boards.
Sidney Hillman has called for a 20 per cent increase in wages and for a continuation of price control. This wage increase would be designed to offset the decline in weekly earnings of labor resulting from the reduction of overtime and the gradual elimination of other wartime factors contributing to the pay envelope.
By his telegram to the shipyard's wage negotiators, the President has shown that he is in earnest about his "anti-inflation" program. Part of the nation's shipyard workers have union contracts which provide for periodic adjustments in wages on the basis of rises in living costs.
Reports that are permitted to come out of the War Labor Board indicate that the Administration is preparing another of those little melodramas in which a labor union is "defeated' by getting substantially what it wants, while the Administration once more enacts the role of "combating inflation" at the same time as it actually adds fuel to the fire.
For some time the representatives of the railroads and of railway labor conferred on the question of a "dismissal wage." The conferences eventually reached a deadlock. The difference was over the amount of compensation to be paid to workers who are displaced as a result of railway consolidations.
There are several ways of measuring the relative welfare of labor at different periods. One is by a comparison of the number of unemployed or employed, another by a comparison of hourly wage rates, a third by average weekly wages and a fourth by total payrolls.
In a letter in today's TIMES Mr. VICTOR MORAWETZ suggests the substitution of an earned wage for the "living wage," the "saving wage," the standard wage and the rest. His argument is that wages must be proportioned to production.
One trouble with those phrases "a living wage," "a saving wage" and "an American wage" is that, as currently used, they beg the question.
With the spirit of Secretary DAVIS'S article, published on another page, no humane mind can disagree. President HARDING has expressed the idea: "The "workman's lowest wage must be enough "for comfort; enough to make his house "a home; enough to insure that the ...
The guaranteed annual wage promises to be an important issue in wage negotiations next winter and spring. Packinghouse workers and steel workers already have announced their intention to seek such a guaranteed wage.
Leon Henderson, the Price Administrator, is to be congratulated on his politically courageous statement yesterday to the National War Labor Board advising that body to rule against general, "substantial" wage increase demands by union labor, because of their inflationary influence.
Amid the intricacies of the War Labor Board's reasoning, let us keep our eye on the main point. The Board, under a strike threat, has granted Mr. Lewis' miners an increase of wages. Whatever its disavowals may be, it has once more found excuses to break its own announced "Little Steel" formula.
The CIO Executive Board has called for an immediate labor-management conference "to the end that the demand and need for immediate wage increases may be given full and official recognition" and to provide "for a stabilized national economy."
ed on Natl Indus Conf Bd study of effect on budget of diversion of corp income to wages
When the general price ceiling plan was adopted in Canada two years ago provision was also made for the fixing of wages. Prices and wages were generally frozen at the level prevailing in the fall of 1941. However, two types of wage adjustments were to be permitted:
Elsewhere on this page we publish a letter from L. Metcalfe Walling, Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division of the United States Department of Labor, referring to this newspaper's editorial of March 27 on the proposed minimum-wage amendments.
The new wage and price regulations issued by Mr. Bowles, with their accompanying explanations, illustrate once again the contrast in the way in which the Government is "stabilizing" wages as compared with prices.
lr citing plan for wage adjustments based on consumer price index adopted by Sinclair Oil Corp in July, '46
The Rules Committee of the House of Representatives now has before it the question of deciding whether privilegedstatus shall be given to the revised Wage-and-Hour Bill. This measure, unlike its predecessors, imposes a single minimum standard on the whole country regardless of sectional consequences.
The hearings before the Railroad Fact-Finding Board have been concluded. The board must now, before Oct. 27, send a report to the President presenting the facts it has ascertained and making its own recommendations.
Some time ago there appeared in THE TIMES a report from France by C.L. Sulzberger on "profit-sharing in industry" which could be and should be of the greatest interest to every American. The report describes a system operating in hundreds of French plants which if adopted here would go far toward insuring full justice for workers while safeguarding industrial interests.
New rulings exempt from the application of the Federal Wage-Hour Act additional groups of "administrative" and "professional" workers if these are receiving not less than $200 a month.
Articles by Louis Stark in this newspaper yesterday and today once more call attention to the inequities in our national wage program. Both from an administrative and an economic point of view the whole program has, in fact, become chaotic. On the one hand are the workers, mostly organized, in industrial plants.
regional dir repts on settlements obtained for workers, N Y, N J and Conn, since law went into effect
The emergency board appointed by the President, after careful study, has recommended a settlement of the railway wage dispute which, in view of all the known facts, seems more than fair to the unions; but the leaders of the five railway brotherhoods announce that they cannot accept it.
The six-day week which Secretary Ickes has ordered in the coal mines means a 30 per cent increase in the weekly pay of the miners as compared with that for a five-day week. This means a 30 per cent increase in wages for only a 20 per cent increase in hours, and perhaps for a much smaller increase in the output of coal.
ed on Sec 7 (a) fixing maximum hrs, and Sec 18 forbidding reduction in wages as joker in act
Revere Copper & Brass Inc agrees to wage increase, Rome, N Y; Interstate Copper and Brass Workers to ratify plan
WLB withdraws exemption from wage controls of employers with 8 or less workers engaged in recapping or retreading tires in NYS and 12 NJ counties
The ostensible function of the War Labor Board is to stabilize wages as a necessary part of preventing an inflationary rise of prices. The Board belatedly adopted a formula for stabilizing wages and ever since then has been exercising its ingenuity to circumvent its own formula.
Tomorrow, in accordance with the automatic provisions in the Federal Wage-Hour Act, the national mandatory minimum wage will advance from the present level of 25 to 30 cents an hour, while basic maximum weekly hours will fall from forty-four to fortytwo.
Beginning today the standard working week under the Federal Wage-Hour Act is reduced from forty-two to forty hours. This means that all workers covered by the act--and that includes the main body of all industrial workers--must be paid "time and a half" for all hours above forty.
One of the peculiar ironies of the forty-hour week is that it did not begin until our so-called all-out production program got under way. The Wage Hour Act became law on June 25, 1938. Its hour provisions did not go into effect until 120 days after its passage. For the first year of their effectiveness they set up a basic working week of forty-four hours.
The financial reports of the country's railroads for the first three months of the present year do not make pleasant reading. The net railway operating income of the Class I railroads has dropped from $148,000,000 in January, February and March a year ago to $19,000,000 this year.
The action of the conferees on the Housing Bill in rejecting Senator Lodge's "prevailing-wage" amendment is extremely encouraging.
About 100 contractors in the men's shirt industry have closed down their factories in New York, New Jersey, Connecticut and Pennsylvania, throwing an estimated number of 20,000 workers out of employment, as a result of a situation growing out of the recent Presidential order reducing hours in the industry from forty to thirty-six a week and raising wage rates 10 per cent.
In his handling of the railway labor problem the President has violated every sound administrative principle. He has failed to lay down clear rules. He has failed to delegate power clearly, and to one top agency alone. He has failed to support the administrators and agencies to whom he has delegated power.
Hopes were raised last week for an immediate end to the hard-coal strike which since May 1 has virtually brought to a standstill the production of the anthracite needed to heat Northeastern homes next winter.
When the President last week reconvened a special emergency fact-finding board to reconsider the still unadjusted dispute of the non-operating railway employes, he added one more turn to the bewildering twists and turns that his railway labor policy has involved. There have been from the beginning two possible courses of action, either of which would have been at least consistent and clear.
The General Motors two-year wage-rate agreement was properly called ingenious in your May 26 issue because, in tying wage-rate increases to a combination of consumer-price changes and secular advance, it recognizes relationships so sadly ignored or improperly considered in the major agreements growing out of similar difficulties during the past two years.
Nothing tangible came of Tuesday's White House conference between President Roosevelt, the railway managers and the railway union leaders. The intimation that the President would name a commission to study the matter and perhaps to canvass, more thoroughly than has yet been done, suggested what may be the result.
Long before the War Labor Board, as such, was created -- that is, when it was still the Defense Mediation Board -- it was pointed out repeatedly to it that it would save itself and the country an enormous amount of uncertainty and trouble if it publicly announced a definite body of principles on which its decisions would be based.
Director General MCADOO has acted with wisdom in providing for a further division of his labors in the management of all the railroads in the country. Henceforth there will be three operating districts.
The members of the Big Five Railroad Brotherhoods comprise about 350,000 workers, equal to about one-third of all railroad employes. On the basis of the pay they received last year the 30 per cent increase they have demanded would add slightly more than $200,000,000 to the operating expenses of the Class I roads.
By voting to recommit the Wagesand-Hours Bill, the House of Representatives has definitely killed all chance of the enactment of this measure at the special session and made it probable, according to our Washington dispatches, that this particular plan will be shelved indefinitely.
Wage scale conference between Western Sheet and Tin Plate Assn and Amalgamated Assn of Iron, Steel and Tin Workers will be held at Atlantic City
At a dinner under theauspices of the American Statistical Association tonight at 6:30 o'clock, at the Aldine Club, 200 Fifth Avenue, the subject for discussion will be "Wage Rates in Relation to the Per Capita Physical Volume of Production."
Internatl Woodworkers of Amer (CIO)-employers negotiations postponed until after Pres Truman wage-price policy s; CIO-operators confs on wage demands noted
Last month Secretary of Labor DAVIS said: "I am opposed with all "my heart and soul to the so-called "living wage." Just enough to sustain life is not an American standard ...
Wage-Hr Div notifies Toilet Goods Assn of deadline for briefs on minimum wage recommendations for drug, med and toilet goods industry
Office and Professional Workers of Amer Bank and Brokerage Employes local (CIO) wage hearings, involving Title Guarantee & Trust Co, held
It is reassuring to find the public members of the War Labor Board determined to hold the wage line on the terms of the Little Steel formula.
Elizabeth area carpenters get wage rise; Master Bldrs Assn reaches accord with Local 715, United Assn reaches accord with Local 715, United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of Amer
Tentative recommendations for modification of the War Labor Board's wage policy have been made unofficially to the Director of Economic Stabilization by several of the Board's public members.
In reducing the wages of one of the humblest classes of railway workers, the Labor Board explains that it leaves them still above the rate in comparable employments.
The voluntary acceptance of a wage reduction by the representatives of many thousands of employes of the giant packing houses of Chicago is something unheard of before on so large a scale, and is rare on any scale.
WASHINGTON, April 6--Behind the months-long contest in Congress over the increase of the legal minimum wage there is another, equally grim, which because of its technicalities, has been brushed aside in public consideration.
The Director General is a distinguished graduate of the school of railway economics conducted by Mr. RIPLEY, but he never got his optimism there. Mr. RIPLEY used to know where his money was coming from before he spent it, and it ...
Pub Contracts Bd recommends minimum wage and 40-hr wk for ammunition and related products industry plants having govt orders
The labor members of the Railroad Labor Board have dissented from each of the several decisions reducing the rate of pay of several classes of workers. There was no cause for surprise that labor's representatives conducted themselves like partisans rather ...
Westinghouse Air Brake and Union Switch & Signal Cos employes granted pay rise under United Elec, Radio and Machine Workers agreement, Wilmerding and Swissvale, Pa
The railway workers whose wages have been reduced by the Labor Board propose to appeal to the President. His response will doubtless be that he has no more control over wages than he has over rates, both having been placed in the hands of governmental agencies. The workers reserve the...
Wage-hr consent decree against Storyk Bros and M Storyk Inc, N Y C and P R
Lawyers Com for Minimum Wage, Dean F H Sommer, chmn, ready to aid in framing new law
The Labor Board has raised the wages of 5,500 railway workers $364,432 a year and also granted bet- terment of working conditions. Presumably the Brotherhood of Station Employes and Telegraphers will not protest, and may not join the other brotherhoods that are pressing for the ciftion of the Labor Board.
The Trainmen Brotherhood's Vice President, Mr. DOAK, remarks feelingly that the railway workers want "practical men put in control" of the adjustment of wage disputes as a "guarantee that men would not be "subjected to inhuman conditions of "industrial servitude such as has "been the case for more than a year."
asks members to inform Cong on their stand on pending Fair Labor Standards Act amendments affecting stores
Amer Cotton Mfrs Assn sec denies Sup Ct decision on Guffey Coal Act will affect wages and hrs
Because the Federal Wage-Hour Act was badly conceived and badly drawn in many ways, its original sponsors, at the request of the administrator of the act, are now compelled to offer amendments. These amendments are in the right direction.
The settlement of the marine wage question seemed less near as yesterday's reports came in, but progress is to be noted nevertheless. As the dispute began the strikers would not even discuss wages, but gave priority to ...
ct dismisses back wages suit of L A Amelotte against J Dold Packing Co, test case, Buffalo
The report of the Railroad Wage Commission is admirable in performance and startling in result. It ranges all the way between the highest and lowest classes of two million workers, and attempts to do justice to each.
Government operation having incurred resentment during the war, the radical of today is developing a new program of "industrial democracy." The laborer is to own his tools and all other means of production. Only in this way, we are told, can "wage slavery" be abolished.
Reprs of Amer Flint Workers Union (AFL) and Mfrs of Pressed and Blown Glassware Natl Assn conf on annual contract
Fifteen Berks County full-fashioned hosiery manufacturers today asked the American Federation of Hosiery Workers to agree to a "downward revision of the wage scale which will recognize serious competitive disadvantages of our mills."
WASHINGTON. Oct. 22 -- The National Defense Mediation Board recommended today that members of the United Mine Workers in nearly forty commercial mines in Alabama, and their owners, accept findings which would increase wages about $1,700,000 a year for about 22,000 miners, but which fall short of the demands made by the Alabama miners.
N Y C Hotel Assn and N Y Hotel Trades Council negotiate on union demand for wage increase
Mrs D Beck, beauty shop owner, fined for violating minimum wage laws, Putnam County, N Y
Fed Ct enters consent decree on back wage payment by Charlotte Dress Co, Burlington, N J
THIS is a significant book. It presents a point of view that does not get much of a gen  eral hearing, either from the class it opposes or from the class it defends; the point of view of a forcefully ...
House Com approves resolution on consent of Cong to interstate compact ratified by Mass, N H and R I
The Federal Wage-Hour Bill as it emerges from conference is in some respects an improvement over either the Senate or the House measure.
A Bing explains City Housing Corp's development, where houses and apts are offered on tenant-ownership plan for moderate incomes, sp art
President Truman's long-deferred Executive Order on wages and prices, and his accompanying statement, constitute an advance over recent policy in two respects.
Consents to filing of brief by Natl Woman's Party in minimum wage case before U S Sup Ct
The award of the Railway Wage Board contains surprises only in details. These are more interesting to those who are to receive the wages than to those who must pay them. The total increase is $600,000,000, retroactive to May, and therefore falls upon the taxpayers under their ...
A O McCormick on Florence art imperiled and destroyed by Ger shelling; calls it war in a museum
LOS ANGELES, Nov. 18.--James J. Davis, Secretary of Labor, in an address at the Labor Temple here last night opposed strikes, on the theory they could be averted easily by mutual understanding between labor and capital. He defended child labor laws and advocated a strict immigration law.
VICHY--Marshal Petain's government has issued a flood of decrees, laws and ordinances that have made much ink to flow, but there is one decision of which little has been written despite its paramount importance.
The hearings before the Public Service Commission upon the Straus plan for the prevention of strikes on public utilities have developed many differences of opinion, but one "near" agreement.
In its willingness to reconsider wagescale decisions the Railroad Labor Board once more displays its impartiality and openness of mind.
OWMR Advisory Com gets WSB rept, signed by M Latimer, on econ security and stabilization through guaranteed annual wage and unemployment ins
President Truman's revised policy on wages and prices, as he announced it over the radio last evening, avoided ...
House and Sen prepare for showdown; Lucas scores Holman and other Repubs for injecting 4th term issue into debate; Holman replies
The controversy regarding the wages of engineers on the Eastern railways, transporting about half of the freight and passengers of the United States, began last January. The award now rendered dates back to May, and forward to next May only.
Every liberal mind must endorse the objectives outlined in the President's message to Congress and the intentions embodied in the Connery-Black bill on wages and hours.
As it emerges from the Senate committee, the Federal bill for establishing minimum wages and maximum hours is far less objectionable than the measure as originally drafted. The extent of the discretion granted to the proposed Labor Standards Board is greatly curtailed. Some of the blanks in the original measure are filled in.
Unless appearances are deceptive, the award regarding the wages of railway engineers will attract an increasing share of public attention. The approval which it receives from many spokesmen of labor is not beyond explanation. An advance is granted irrespective of whether or not the railways can afford it, and a minimum is fixed below which no railway can depress its payments.
J P McAllister says operators feel latest wage award, in addition to previous rises, imposes heavy burden
WASHINGTON, Jan. 26. -- General Johnson recommended in his testimony today that wages and salaries be fixed the same as other prices in time of war, that supplies of essential materials not available in the United States be stored up, and that the army be increased. He voiced strong opposition to immediate conscription of industry in the event of war.
WLB expands meat packing comm voluntary wage adjustments authority; independent packers to negotiate for benefits gained by big 5
Wage and Hr Div admr L M Walling resigns; Pres Truman appts W R McComb successor
Wage-Hr Adm industry com recommends minimum wages for cigar makers and workers preparing cigar leaf tobacco
Wage-Hr Administrator T W Holland recommends 40c-an-hr wage minimum in all branches except knit goods and woolens
Inquiry ct backs 5 shillings wkly wage rise for machinists and metal workers based on natl stabilization policy; unions demand noted
Wage dispute between AFL teamsters and met area dealers assn goes to mediators; assn repr comments
WASHINGTON, June 24 (UP) -- The Senate Labor Committee today approved a modified bill to raise the national minimum wage from 40 to 75 cents an hour, an Administration "must" for this session.
WSB chmn W W Wirtz says Govt control of wages has been based on OPA recognition of bd approval of increases as price factor since early '46; control will expire with end of OPA
NYC Pocket Book Workers Union to protest WLB wage roll-back order; WLB repts indus raised wages without permission; indus to join union in urging wage-scale inquiry
The Regional Wage Stabilization Board announced yesterday afternoon its approval of a 20 per cent wage increase for 30,000 longshoremen whose strike tied up New York Harbor for eighteen days last October.
Establishment of the merchant seamen wage levels that prevailed on American-flag vessels in October, 1945, as the minimum to be paid by steamship companies holding Government operating-differential subsidies, has been recommended to the Maritime Commission by G. O. Basham, chief trial examiner for the agency.
Pub hearing to be held on Pulp and Primary Paper Industry Com 40c wage minimum recommendation
dir E J Phelan classifies types of wage rises; cites ILO-UN relationship, rept to Montreal conf
An attempt to arbitrate the issues of a wage review between the Atlantic and Gulf Coast steamship operators and the Masters, Mates and Pilots, AFL, started yesterday at a meeting m the offices of the American Arbitration Association, 9 Rockefeller Plaza. David L. Cole of Paterson, N. J., presided as chairman of a committee that includes himself and two men from each faction.
state urges NY Commerce and Indus Assn to expedite wage information needed to determine eligibility and benefits under new system
WILLYS-OVERLAND MOTORS: grants interim wage rise of 10c an hr to employes represented by UAWA, Machinists Assn and Mechanics Educ Soc
The soft-coal miners went back to work last week and by yesterday the nation's economy was almost restored to normal. But the grave question of the relations between labor and industry took larger form.
CAMDEN, N. J., May 25 (AP) -- The Industrial Union of Marine and Shipbuilding Workers, CIO, today rejected a request by the Bethlehem Steel Company to pass up a wage increase demand this year.
WLB forms meat packing comm to adjudicate wage disputes between 5 packing cos and 3 unions
Wage-Hr Law Administrator offers ctfs for employment of learners in cigar industry at less than minimum wages
TOKYO, Oct. 20 -- Signs of strain are beginning to appear in the occupation's hold-the-line policy on wages and prices. In the year since enforcement began both wholesale and retail prices have risen 20 per cent and labor is beginning to chafe under the virtual strike prohibition by Gen. Douglas MacArthur.
In your editorial of May 26 on the GM-UAW-CIO settlement, which we are recommending be accepted by the General Motors locals of our union, you devote principal attention to the so-called cost-of-living adjustment.
MALAYA: United Planting Assn urges cutting tappers wages to meet recent price drop; tappers wage rates cited
Woolworth Bldg, N Y C, employes win wage rise following Bldg Service Employes Internatl Union Local 32-B strike; contract to be signed
CHICAGO, June 26 -- A tentative date of July 8 has been set for the National Railway Mediation Board to begin proceedings in Chicago on the current wage dispute between the railroads and seventeen nonoperating unions. Direct negotiations have ended without agreement.
TWUA (CIO) votes woolen and worsted wage drive for New Eng, N Y, N J and Pa
W. H. Danielson, business agent of the Masters, Mates and Pilots Association, an A. F. of L. affiliate, announced yesterday that a contract had been signed with the New York and Porto Rico Line covering wage and working agreements on five passenger vessels and four freighters.
LONDON, July 29 (AP). -- Today the mine owners sent word to the miners that they accepted the principle of a minimum wage, which had been endorsed by the Government's special committee, but added that inasmuch as the industry was losing more and more money every month it would have to be "a very low minimum."
Preparing to resume negotiations at 1 P.M. tomorrow with the Federation of Long Lines Telephone Workers, the Long Lines Department of the American Telephone and Telegraph Company announced yesterday that its offer to increase wages $3 to $7 weekly would add $5,800,000 to the company's annual payroll.
M S Heindel and P McGuigan & Sons plants close down because of inability to comply
Western Assn of Sheet and Tin Plate Mfrs grants 2% wage increase instead of vacations with pay
MR. CARNEGIE is well aware that his theory of the benefits of profit-sharing, of making wage-earners partners in business, will "encounter the opposition of extremists on both sides." Socialists will dissent because the general adoption of the plan of makng wage-earners shareholders would drive them out of business.
3,600 workers in 4 Toledo, Ohio, auto parts factories get 5% wage increase and return to work
It does not seem right that we should make the wage earner bear the expense of the Government by paying him larger wages and then taking it away from him in the shape of taxation on what he wears. Surely clothing is a necessity.
Annual conf of Natl Assn of Mfrs of Pressed and Blown Glass and Amer Flint Glass Workers Union
The commission appointed by Governor Smith to settle the controversy between employers and employes in the garment industry has finished its work and the report will be given to the public by Governor Smith in person at the headquarters of the State Industrial Commission, 230 Fifth Avenue, today at  noon, it was announced last night.
The British Board of Trade has been investigating the conditions of living for workmen in the United States, but Englishmen hardly know what to make of it. It is easy to anticipate that American opinions on the report will be equally divided, although for different reason.
Assoc Actors and Artistes of Amer member unions to seek contracts for Bway movie house performers
Wagon drivers in Bklyn win wage increase and end strike; men were from C. H. Reynolds & Sons, Bklyn Union Coal Co, Bush Coal Co and Tuttle Coal Co
Strikebound stores of the Whelan Drug Company were opened yesterday afternoon soon after members of Local 1199, Retail Drug Store Employes, CIO, had approved a new company settlement proposal.
Negotiations were begun yesterday between officials of the American Export Company and a committee representing the United Automobile Workers' Airlines Mechanics Department looking to an agreement on wages.
sailing postponed as operators-NMU conf fails; issue revd; previous delays revd; F J Taylor outlines operators views, lr to NMU aide
It is reported, and we think generally believed, that a large proportion of the railroad employes of the country, notably in the West, will vote for Mr. BRYAN this year.
Sir W. Runciman discusses with deputation Govt. control of milk and wheat supply and establishment of municipal shops
Stainback suggests strike end with $1.54 basic wage; seeks confs on 2-yr pact to begin Apr 1; ILWU, cooks and firemen stands noted
NYS Laundry Minimum Wage Bd recommends basic minimum wages for full and part-time workers; pub hearings planned
US LABOR: WSB vetoes AT&T long lines employes 17.6-cent hrly pay increase; approval held necessary as basis for rate increases; Bell System Natl Telephone Workers Fed wage award unaffected by action
ROME, Aug. 5 -- Italy's Communist-led Confederation of Labor (CGIL) signed a major wage agreement with industry tonight promising peace on the factory front.
Nazis in brown shirts, Social Dems in blue shirts and Communists in red cravats wage color war in Vienna during Hitlerite conf
Representatives of 14,000 unionized maintenance and plant employes of the New York Telephone Company will vote today on acceptance of a company offer of wage increases ranging from $3 to $6 a week. Most of the workers would receive increases of $5 and $6 under the proposal, union officials said.
GE says CIO attempt to prove high corp profits justify higher wages will not alter co stand; scores basis for computing buying power drop; UE talks to be resumed
employes of N Y State Rys in Rochester, Syracuse and Utica will vote on new wage and working agreement adopted by union reprs and employers
Marine Engineers' Beneficial Assn granted Shipping Bd wages on coal-carrying vessels out of Boston; strike ends
AFL CONTRACTS: Seafarers Internatl Union (SIU) and Atlantic and Gulf Coast operators sign revised pact providing 5% wage rise and other awards
15th Assembly Dist Repub Club adopts resolution recommending passage of proposed salary increase for Police and Fire Depts
Sup Ct to rev enforceability of injunctions against employers for Wage-Hr Law violations, Jacksonville Paper Co case
Pacific Coast AFL Metal Trades Council and all West Coast yds sign 2-yr pact for 8 1/2% wage rise on repairs and 13c-an-hr on new bldg
US and GB Mil Govts to give up control over wages to Bizonal Econ Adm, bizonal area
WLB rejects ship radio operators wage rise; resolves 34 issues covering employment conditions in 29 Atlantic and Gulf Coast and 34 West Coast steamship cos-CIO Amer Communications Assn dispute
Sec Schwellenbach says Govt may seize Allis-Chalmers and J I Case plants unless cos settle wage disputes with employes
WLB panel rules UERMWA wage demands can legally be granted, Gen Elec and Westinghouse Elec & Mfg Cos cases
Min Mayer announces decree for 11% wage increase over July, '46 rate; Govt at odds with pact on wage base; silent on prices
ACWA Laundry Workers Joint Bd (CIO) and 4 employer assns' reprs to resume contract negotiations, N Y C
WASHINGTON, March 20--Soft coal operators reported today that no progress had been made in collective bargaining with the United Mine Workers. In a meeting with reporters which the operators proposed John L. Lewis declared that ...
WASHINGTON, Aug. 31 -- The vote by which the Senate today rejected the Ellender amendment that would have limited the minimum wage bill to a 65-cent minimum and tied it to the cost of living was as follows:
Ct approves decree whereby Davidson Bros Corp, N Y C, must repay employes for wage law violations and may move goods previously tied up under Wage-Hr Law hot-goods provision
The International Longshoremen's Association, AFL, rejected yesterday an employer offer submitted last week in the current dispute over wages.
eds on HR refusal to recess and on how high tariffs protect Amer labor against invasion of 'pauper-made' goods
Three readily available chemicals that show promise as fuels or aids in propelling the rockets of the future were described yesterday to members of the American Rocket Society and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers as they ended their joint convention at the Statler Hotel.
F S Blackall Jr scores direct election of Sens as upsetting Legis Branch function, s, engineers soc
The Massachusetts Institute of Technology's automatic calculating machine, which weighs a hundred tons and includes in its bewildering array of parts...
When he received the Leo Hendrik Baekeland award from the North Jersey Section of the American Chemical Society, Prof. Eugene G. Rochow of Harvard enlivened the occasion by telling his hearers how wonderful it would be if chemistry were exploited to the full.
Two hundred persons gathered at a Mississippi cotton field on Monday to witness what may prove to be a historic spectacle. A ponderous machine, ten feet high, lumbered over the field and picked cotton with a thousand moistened steel fingers. In about eight hours it picked as much as seventy-five or eighty men and women could have gathered picking by hand for the same period.
The League for the Suppression of Mystery Films Which Conceal Vital Evidence from the Audience is hereby instructed to cast a solid vote against the Mayfair's new picture, an old-school murder mystery disguised under the flamboyant title of "Sing Sing Nights." From the league's verdict there is no appeal, not even on the ground that the picture should be spared because of its novelty. So far as the league is concerned, a mystery film is only as good as its solution. This one is bad, indeed.It seemsas the Governor remarks to the professorthere was a corpse, probably the most-thoroughly killed man in history. Shot through the head, the heart and the spine. Any one bullet would have caused instant death. And there were three men who confessed the murder. And there was an unpartisan jury which found all three guilty, and a judge who sentenced all three to die in the electric chair.The professor, with the quick perception of his kind, holds that all three cannot be guilty; that two did nothing more than fire shots into a corpse. The Governor agrees, but what to do, what to do? Out of a hat, so to speak, the criminologist pulls his lie detector and offers to use it on the three condemned men. Let each tell his story, the professor suggests, and the guilty man will be revealed. So it is.The picture, then, goes into the stories of the three murderers of Floyd Cooper, war correspondent, munitions agent and gay deceiver. Whose story is to be believed? That of Howard Trude, the Washington correspondent, whose sweetheart was stolen by Cooper? That of Robert McCaigh, the coffee planter, who lost his wife and his plantation? Or that of Sergei Krenwicz whose path was crossed by Cooper in Manchuria?There's no use worrying about it. Only the lie detector and Professor Varney know. The audience must sit back and watch and listen, and there is really nothing of vast import to be seen or heard. No "Sing Sing Nights" is not the brightest of Hollywood's gifts to Broadway, even though it has a few moments and an earnest cast.The League for the Suppression of Mystery Films Which Conceal Vital Evidence from the Audience is hereby instructed to cast a solid vote against the Mayfair's new picture, an old-school murder mystery disguised under the flamboyant title of "Sing Sing Nights." From the league's verdict there is no appeal, not even on the ground that the picture should be spared because of its novelty. So far as the league is concerned, a mystery film is only as good as its solution. This one is bad, indeed.It seemsas the Governor remarks to the professorthere was a corpse, probably the most-thoroughly killed man in history. Shot through the head, the heart and the spine. Any one bullet would have caused instant death. And there were three men who confessed the murder. And there was an unpartisan jury which found all three guilty, and a judge who sentenced all three to die in the electric chair.The professor, with the quick perception of his kind, holds that all three cannot be guilty; that two did nothing more than fire shots into a corpse. The Governor agrees, but what to do, what to do? Out of a hat, so to speak, the criminologist pulls his lie detector and offers to use it on the three condemned men. Let each tell his story, the professor suggests, and the guilty man will be revealed. So it is.The picture, then, goes into the stories of the three murderers of Floyd Cooper, war correspondent, munitions agent and gay deceiver. Whose story is to be believed? That of Howard Trude, the Washington correspondent, whose sweetheart was stolen by Cooper? That of Robert McCaigh, the coffee planter, who lost his wife and his plantation? Or that of Sergei Krenwicz whose path was crossed by Cooper in Manchuria?There's no use worrying about it. Only the lie detector and Professor Varney know. The audience must sit back and watch and listen, and there is really nothing of vast import to be seen or heard. No "Sing Sing Nights" is not the brightest of Hollywood's gifts to Broadway, even though it has a few moments and an earnest cast.
Heredity, culpability, praiseworthiness, punishment, and reward are discussed by Dr. C.B. DAVENPORT, the expert on eugenics representing the Carnegie Institution of Washington at Cold Spring Harbor, in the Popular Science Monthly for July. Conduct, Dr. DAVENPORT says, is merely reaction to a stimulus.
In the Spring the young golfer's fancy--particularly the old golfer's-- lightly turns to thoughts of new balls, improved clubs and renewed study of the baffling game. Recently in England some novel mechanical tests were ...
W Kaempffert on mech heart developed by Drs Crafoord and Andersson to permit surgery; Dr V O Bjork tests noted
The citizen infirm of body or of purpose who is never quite sure as to the best thing to do at the moment will find the new form of turnstile which is coming into use at the main entrances of well-appointed office buildings beneficially educational as a discourager of hesitancy.
PANAMA, Sept. 1. -- Carl A. Strom, chief of the mechanical department in the canal zone, resigned to-day. It is reported that several changes will be made soon among the officers of the Panama Railroad.
DOUBTLESS the greatest genius I ever knew was a young fellow named Simon Taylor, who was born and reared in a little town in Southern Wisconsin. His genius took the inventive form, and it was not much of a week when he did not turn out two or three inventions.
WASHINGTON, Oct. 20.--This was the third and last day of the Carriage Builders' Convention. Mr Shepard, of New-Haven, presented the following resolution:
Now that noise has come to play so important apart in the nomination of Presidential candidates, the inventor of the "Smith, Mechanical Boomer," who announces that his invention is just ready to be give to the public, ought to meet with great success. The Mechanical ...
Heavy industries and stable non-ferrous metals production are active, but light manufacturing is seasonally dull. In the mechanical and shipbuilding branches the boom is unabated. In December 70.9 per cent of all working places in industry were occupied, against 72.3 in November. Outdoor constructional activity almost ceased because of the cold.
ALPHONSE said Miss Ethel Hardinge, and as she spoke the words she sighed gently. "it cannot be I respect you I bold you in the highest as term, but I do not love you as I felt that I must love the man whom I would many and oh, I am sorry."
Funeral services for George E. Pancoast, chief engineer and mechanical director of the Hearst newspaper organization, were held at 8 o'clock last night at the Fred Herbst Funeral Parlors, 83 Hanson Place, Brooklyn.
The Black Forest  is famous for these mechanical organs--orchestrions, as they are called--and in some instances they are brought to great perfection.
A long-standing need of the western New York area will be fulfilled with the establishment by the University of Buffalo of a four-year program in mechanical engineering. The program, announced by Chancellor Samuel P. Capen, will begin with the opening of the university's fall term on Sept. 27.
Eugene W. O'Brien of Atlanta, Ga., a publisher, was elected president of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers for the coming year, succeeding D. Robert Yarnall of Philadelphia, it was announced ...
The fifty-eighth annual convention of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers will open today at the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirty-ninth Street. Sessions will continue through Friday.
President Edward G. Barrow of the Yankees said yesterday that he had heard of no plan officially to transfer the Army-Navy football game to the Yankee Stadium and declared that a transfer at this late date would be a physical impossibility.
RICHMOND, Dec. 1-The recent mechanical cotton picker demonstration in York County, S. C., attracted a large gathering from both North and South Carolina,...
James A. Brown, retired mechanical engineer and major in the ordnance - department during the World War, died here yesterday after a long illness. He was 68 years old.
Mt Wilson Observatory to be placed under joint adm with Calif Tech Inst Mt Palomar observatory; reasearch plans reptd; Dr I S Bowen to succeed Dr W S Adams as dir
Small electric motors, some so tiny they could be hidden in a closed fist, are being used in increasingly large numbers on American warplanes to perform numerous small jobs and permit the pilot to give more attention to details dependent more on human judgment.
A "mechanical man" of Coney Island, whose duty it is to pose in front of the side shows and deceive the public as well as to attract its attention to the show on the inside, after a hard season at the Summer resort thought that he was a little rusty so he came to Manhattan to get an "oiling."
TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES: As an American engineer whose main problem for twenty-seven years was that of helping to mechanize British coal mines, and as one who also supervised considerable prospect drilling of British coal fields, I am afraid James Reston's interesting article in the Sept. 4 TIMES may give some of your readers a few erroneous impressions.
POOR young man! All that time time and money wasted! He spent four years of hard work in an engineering school and what sort of a job has he now? He cleans out freight cars as they come in to the repair shop of the Pennsylvania Railroad.
ANN ARBOR, Mich., Sept. 24 (AP) --Professor John E. Emswiler, chairman of the Mechanical Engineering Department of the University of Michigan, died here last night after a year's illness. Professor Emswiler, author of a textbook on thermodynamics, was born at Lebanon, Ill., sixty years ago.
FROM a distant university in South Africa twoscore mining students recently brought their "war cry" to the top of the Empire State Building. On a tour of this country, they had ascended to see Manhattan from its highest point.
The American Society of Mechanical Engineers will hold its annual sessions at No. 127 East Twenty-third-street, beginning to-morrow evening at 8 o'clock and finished on Friday.
-One  of the earliest and most characteristic sights to be visited by every new arrival in the town of Tokio is the great popular temple at Asakusa, to me a most fascinating spot, and one to which I returned again and again with ever new interest. Among the many attractions, all within ...
LONDON, Nov. 3 -- Attempts to introduce a mechanical loading machine on one of London's wharfs started a walkout Monday of 400 dockworkers who were still on strike tonight. The machine, which was on trial at Butler's wharf, is said to do the work of twelve men.
Mechanical Engineering Dept. students graduate 2 months ahead of time in order to enter service of Govt.
Federal aid in the development of interstate freight and passenger transportation by air is sought by the Aeronautics Division of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers on the ground that commercial aerial transport is going to be of great importance to the economic future of this country.
THE National Automobile Snow, which will bring together for public presentation the products of more than a score of motor car manufacturers, will open in Grand Central Palace at 2 P.M. next Saturday. This thirty-fourth annual exhibition, scheduled to continue through Jan. 13, will present a greater variety of improvements and more significant ones than has been the case for several years, in the opinion of those who have gathered advance information about the exhibits.
DETROIT. ALTHOUGH the advance word  is that 1938 passenger cars will not be startlingly different from current models,  there will be enough improvements to make the car buyer aware of the fact that he is getting something better than has ever been offered...
mgt spokesmen call strike ineffective; Photo Engravers Union instructed to cross picket lines but do only own work
The training of skilled mechanics and craftsmen can and should be done by the school system, rather than any hastily set up amateur agency, James Marshall, president of the Board of Education, declared last night.
BOSTON, Mass., Aug. 13.--For a year an 18-year-old girl stricken with infantile paralysis has been shielded from death by a respirator machine at Massachusetts General Hospital, it became known today.
James I. Roland O'Connor of 3367 160th Street, Flushing, mechanical engineer, died yesterday in Flushing Hospital at the age of 41. He had been a patient there since an operation Aug. 17.
The problem of the carrier in various infectious diseases has long vexed the sanitarian who is bent on discovering every possible mode of transmission and every portal of entry for the germs. Human carriers, of typhoid and diphtheria germs, themselves immune to attacks of the malady, are now watched for in nearly every community, and the danger which they represent as a latent source of infection is clearly recognized.
European rulers are devoting considerable attention to the motor vehicle for military purposes. At the recent army operations at the great English military camp at Aldershot the value of the gasoline motor was demonstrated in several ways. King George and Queen Mary were present at the manoeuvres, and evinced more than ordinary interest in the latest developments of mechanical locomotion.
Telephone contact between this country and Palestine has been broken for the last two days, a spokesman for the long lines department of the American Telephone and Telegraph Company disclosed yesterday. It is uncertain, it was added, when the connection will be restored.
press faces tie-up as mech workers threaten to join communications workers strike after Govt refuses wage demands
US Army Air Force repts 23,000,000 mi of flying without accidents attributable to mech failure completed at Craif Field, Ala, advance training school
THE business of serving meals and running a house goes right on through the Summer for many housewives. Attractive new tableware and labor-saving gadgets have been designed to add a midsummer fillip to their tasks.
Dr V Bush describes his "mechanical brain" for solving problems impossible for human brain to compass
SALT LAKE CITY, Sept. 1 (AP) -- Application of the industry, sacrifice and diligence shown by the Utah pioneers would bring an era of unparalleled prosperity to the West and Southwest, Eugene W. O'Brien of Atlanta, Ga., president of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, said today in a keynote address opening the society's fall meeting.
If one believes that the show visitor is interested only in the externals, such as body design and color, he had but to stop for a time at each exhibit last week at the Garden Automobile Show, when conviction would have been forced upon him that women and men are rapidly becoming mechanically inclined, even though it be only empirically so.
CLEVELAND, May 23. -- The Mechanical Branch of the Association of Licensed Automobile Manufacturers met at the Hollenden Hotel in Cleveland yesterday in business session during the morning and visited the automobile plants of the Peerless Motor Car Company, the F.B. Stearns Company, and the Winton Motor Carriage Company in the afternoon.
LONDON, Dec. 31. -- If there was one feature of French motor character more demonstrated than another at the Paris show, it was that of mechanical courage. We use the word to describe that daring which impels the engineer to break away from the beaten path, to anxiously avoid the conventional, and to endeavor to bring entirely fresh ideas and methods into the motor-car scheme.
More than 200 mechanical engineers of New York City will leave today for Cleveland to attend the five-day convention of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, which begins on Monday.
The New York Principals' Association met yesterday afternoon in the John Wanamaker auditorium, Broadway and Ninth Street. It acted upon the report of its Committee on Educational Problems ...
Every well-posted retail merchant is aware nowadays that, to be successful, he must sell service as well as merchandise. It has become almost an axiom that a customer will remember good service after the merchandise is forgotten.
PARIS, April 10. -- Le Temps contains some exclusive information in regard to the armaments of the six new French Dreadnoughts projected in the naval programme for 1906, which apparently place these vessels in a class superior to that of their British namesakes.
IF Professor Charles E. Lucke, Dean of the Department of Mechanical Engineering of Columbia University,  had his way the figure of Alma Mater, at the foot of the steps leading to the Columbia Library, might be surmounted by a placard reading, "Academic Studies Discontinued During the War."
The results of the two-day mechanical efficiency test and run around Long Island, under the auspices of the New York Automobile Trade Association, were announced yesterday at a meeting of the Contest Committee of the association.
Gunpowder is much more readily detonated by a sharp blow from a small hammer than by the simple fall of a heavy hammer, or by a comparatively weak blow from the latter.
Improved styling and mechanical advances are emphasized in the 1949 Kaiser special and de luxe models announced yesterday by Edgar F Kaiser, vice president and general manager of the Kaiser-Frazer Corporation. The cars will be displayed tomorrow in dealer showrooms here and throughout the country.
WASHINGTON, June 25 (AP) -- The Civil Aeronautics Board said today that no indication of mechanical malfunctions had been found in the engines or controls of the United Airlines plane that crashed in attempting to take off at New York's La Guardia Field on May 29.
As in the case of Mary Terrell, deportation wrongs seem continually to be practiced, as, for instance, not long ago, the deportation of an Englishwoman and her little son because the latter was slightly defective in intelligence, this action being taken in spite of the fact that the husband and father had previously come to America, established himself in the West, and was amply able to provide for his wife and child.
Amer Soc of Mech Engineers urges establishment of natl employment exchange; admits machine adds to unemployment
PARIS, Sept. 27. -- Frenchmen who venerate the past and abhor all modern inventions are terribly scandalized at what they describe as the desecration of the historic palace of Versailles, which on Friday last was made to serve as the background for a series of theatrical spectacles organized at the request of a cinematograph operator.
OWMR dir Snyder warns coal strike hampers efforts to meet famine crisis, rept to C Davis
At the risk of upsetting the equanimity of the composer, we shall state that last night tomorrow dawned. And then we shall permit him to set the word again.
M V O'Shea claims most children described as precocious are merely mechanical memorizers and are arguments against forced educ
Offers $500,000 to R B Wright, of Amer Soc of Mech Engineers, for solution of indus problem by engineers
John Lyle Harington of Kansas City, Mo., has been nominated as President of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, succeeding Dean Dexter S. Kimball of the Cornell University College of Engineering. The nomination of Mr. Harrington will be Formally ratified by mail ballot of the society's 17,000 members.
Nine years ago a play written by a then unknown playwright, Rose Franken, quietly slipped into the Booth Theatre under the title of "Another Language" and went on to success. Tonight "Claudia," Miss Franken's second effort on Broadway, will be presented at the same stand.
74 new streamlined cars immobilized by defects; W Reid repts Transportation Bd engineers aid mfrs in making repairs at no cost to NYC
"Design" Not a "Mechanical Device"; J. Hammond's Test Suit Before United States Circuit Court of Appeals
Pres Truman's Highway Safety Conf Com on Motor Vehicle Adm meeting; periodic examinations of drivers to cut accident toll urged; establishment of medical agencies to determine driver qualifications suggested; other recommendations
War Dept discloses use of exploding mech weapon used to clear way for tanks; weapon described
After years of controversy between the Customs officials of this and other ports and importers regarding the line of demarkation between so-called "edible" olive oil and that fit only for mechanical or manufacturing purposes, the problem appears about to be settled by the powers conferred on the Secretary of the Treasury by the new tariff law authorizing him to denature imported oils that are unfit for food purposes.
Old toy banks as Americana; 2-faced furniture; furnishings of House of the Modern Age, N Y C, illus
A demonstration of the effectiveness of wood and metal work in arousing backward and mentally deficient children was given yesterday at the West Fifty-third Street School of the Children's Aid Society. The demonstration consisted largely of an exhibition of the work done in less than a year by a class of sixteen "difficult" children, ranging from eight to twelve years old.
Westinghouse Electric and Mfg Co demonstrates electric man, unit in televocal system for distance operation; statement by R J Wensley, inventor
WASHINGTON, Dec. 4.--The mechanical conditions of America's fleet has undergone little improvement since the termination of the war and the engineer performance of the individual ships "has not been satisfactory," Rear Admiral Griffin, chief of the Bureau of Engineering, says in his annual report made public today at the Navy Department.
-- Appended is the list of stolen wheels, unrecovered up to date, furnished THE NEW-YORK TIMES by the New-York Cycle Board of Trade, with additions from other sources:
To the ordinary layma who regards the motor truck merely as a sort of glorified horse wagon with a motor substituted for the patient plodding draught animal, it will come as a revelation that a trade paper was recently able to publish a long article illustrating and describing over two dozen type of machines fitted with as many different kinds of mechanical dumping bodies.
The annual exhibition of the school department of the General Society of Mechanics and Tradesmen was held at Mechanics' Institute, in West Forty-fourth Street, last night. More than 2,500 persons came on invitation to inspect the work of the scholars for the season of 1901 and 1902, which ended on April 16.
SCRANTON, Penn., Jan. 12.--A mechanical contrivance, invented by a Methodist minister, and now in use on the railroads centring in this city, for the purpose of checking the manner in which freight trains are run by the employes, ...
MOSCOW, Nov. 7 -- A 101-gun salute opened the celebration today of the sixteenth anniversary of the October revolution (Nov. 7 on the Gregorian Calendar) in Moscow's Red Square.
They call Bobby Jones the mechanical man of golf and no truer description was ever draped around the young Georgian, who yesterday won the British open championship for the second year in succession.
LONDON, Friday, Feb. 27. -- Yesterday's ball game was featured in this morning papers, which publish descriptions, in terms, although familiar to the cricketer, are scarcely recognizable by baseball fans. They make lengthy comparisons of cricket and baseball, and the general opinion is that, although baseball is interesting as a novelty in the matter of athletic games, it is interior to cricket and is not likely to compete with the latter game on this side.
-- The wheel, as a complete whole, compared with a railroad car, makes an interesting comparison, says The Wheel, and it must be understood that the railroad car is designed to carry its loads over almost perfect rails, while the bicycle must have all sorts of strains over rutty roads. What the mechanic calls the "factor of strength" is the point in this comparison.
J. W. Bate, General Factory Manager and Chief Engineer of one of the motor companies which builds both right and left drive models, is strongly in favor of left drive in normal conditions. The company makes motor cars with both types of drive because it annually disposes of a number of cars in "left-drive" countries where the machine with the right-hand drive is demanded by the laws.
police see similarities with bomb that killed Mrs G Walker and with typewriter that was used to address both pkgs; Rosalsky, Egan and bomb remains illus
New methods of increasing efficiency discussed at Amer Mech Engineers Soc meeting, NYC; method of studying movements of workmen through use of motion pictures detailed
L I Daily Press suspends indefinitely, alleging Guild pickets prevent mech workers from entering plant; W F Hofmann, pub, cites lack of adequate police protection; explains discharge of 25 ed employes
One of the most interesting things about "Das Rheingold," which will be produced by the Damrosch Opera Company at the Metropolitan Opera House this evening, will be the scenic effects. It is said by theatrical people that this opera is one of the most difficult to stage, and that it would be given more often if the mechanical effects were not so costly.
FATHER'S game of golf is ailing. He has popped sue  cessive balls into the woods off the first tee. Well enough he knows that he has been neglectful of his game, false to the great
PHILADELPHIA, Sept. 25. -- Addresses by famous scientists and specialists on tuberculosis marked the sessions here today of the International Conference on Tuberculosis.
The Pennsylvania Railroad Company has intrusted the work of the mechanical and electrical equipment of the power houses, passenger stations, and the complete underground system of the Pennsylvania tunnel to the firm of Westinghouse, Church, Kerr  Co., designing and constructing engi- neers, whose pricinpal offices are at 10 Bridge Street.
-- Seemingly there is a unanimity of opinion among Crescent agents as to their desire to handle this well-known line again this year, and the New-York and Chicago offices are in dally receipt of applications for renewals of contracts, which is pretty good testimony that Crescents are "good sellers." The company congratulates itself upon its friendly relations with every one who handles 4th wheels, and naturally makes terms which are mutually advantageous.
-- Charles M. Ertz, the crack Class A rider of the Riverside Wheelmen, has entered the trade. He has accepted an offer to manage the new branch of the Sidney B. Bowman Cycle Company, in Harlem. The new store, which is on West One Hundred and Twenty-fifth Street, at No. 125, right next door to Steve Moen's place, will be opened in style on Jan. 27.
NY Times survey for Natl Highway Users Conf; faulty cars blamed for most road mishaps; pub views discussed
The latest mechanical aid enlisted in the service of the French farmer is a motor plow. The tractor itself has a thirty-five horse power engine, with cylinders measuring 110 by 150 MM. Except for the type of radiator employed, it is a perfect standard chassis as commonly used for bus or heavy work.
E G Bailey urges US apply power indus development experience abroad to aid recovery of other nations
" For the last three or four years automobile manufacturers have devoted all of their attention to the development of luxury, refinement, and comfort for the user," said W.C. Poertner, automobile manufacturer, yesterday. "Large seating room, extravagant upholstering, highly polished painting, and many other details of appointment are the chief features of the motor car of to-day.
GREAT ingenuity has been shown by the printing industry in devising methods for feeding single sheets of paper into the presses mechanically. The system of feeding from rolls, such as is used in the large newspaper presses, is common knowledge today, but in the job printing industry even that remarkable invention has been surpassed.
THE beautiful, declares Mr. Gill, is that which is pleasing when seen, and art is the skill to make well what needs making. "Look after goodness and truth," he adds, "and beauty will take care of herself."
Vaiden B. Sweeney, former mechanical superintendent of The Journal of Commerce, died yesterday at his residence, 3,612 Farragut Road, Brooklyn, after a twoday illness. He celebrated his eightieth birthday on July 23.
WHEN a private citizen, unassisted either by the claims of birth or by the advantages of wealth, is known to nobody one day and known to everybody on the morrow, there arises a problem on the psychology of the multitude for which we must seek a solution in terms of mankind.
Mechanical and dynamical engineers from eight States of the Union met yesterday, at No. 96 Fulton-street, for the purpose of forming a national society of mechanical engineers.
Since the earliest days of the motor car automobilists have been slaves of the starting crank. It has long been felt that if only the tedious and dangerous preliminary "cranking" could be done away with, automobiling development would have made a long step toward the ideal; but, though thousands of experiments have been made, it was not until quite recently that the devices employed could really be considered certain or practical.
William Fyfe Turnbull, one-time instructor at Yale University, died Friday night at his home in this village. His age was 55. Mr. Turnbull was a teacher of mechanical engineering. He served the City of New York for three years and for six years was in the employ of the Third Avenue Railway Company.
Article on "mechanical cops" or "monitoring devices" to be used to check stations on use of waves
FOR the benefit of those who have not an automobile factory near at hand for their inspection, George M. Dickson. General Manager of the National Motor Vehicle Company, has prepared the following, telling in detail just what they would see were they able to go through and take up more or less in detail the process of manufacture of the well-known National "40" motor cars.
A large audience attended the fourth session of the annual convention of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers yesterday in their library in West Thirty-first Street. Six hundred and thirty members were in their seats when Herman Poole mounted the platform and began to read a paper on the use of gasoline gas for boiler heating.
The Wisconsin Agricultural and Mechanical Association Fair, for the exhibition of stock, opened to-day. Three hundred entries were made. The troiters Panic, Rich Forest and Louisa, of New-York, Buckskin and Plowboy, of chicago, and the fastest Wisconsin stock, are on the ground; also the runners Legal Tender, Rook, Miranda, Fanny Burt, Limerick Boy and Harper.
LAWS in mechanics have an application in the science to which they belong, but it has not yet been satisfactorily demonstrated that the same principles have a practical bearing on the art of acting. This truth, which ought to be understood, is frequently overlooked.
The trustees of the Cooper Union have now completed the comprehensive scheme for the free technical education of workingmen, originally contemplated by the trust deed of Mr. COOPER, by the establishment of a permanent course on "Machinery and Mechanical Engineering."
Work to make city seaport in connection with deeper Hudson River to begin Apr 8; Col J M Slattery on value of project
THE problem of finding a Christmas gift for a man need not cause confusion in feminine heads. Women who refuse to allow themselves to be unnerved by memories of past gifts, which were slyly hid away a few days after New Year's, stand a chance of hitting upon a present that will serve its recipient well.
MART PNEUMATIC VALVE and Sarah Electric Button will be the servant girls of the future. So declares Prof. Isaac M. Rublnow, who has thought deeply on the subject, written quite a bit, lectured extensively, and, better than that, has employed a long line of more or less efficient housemaids under his own roofree, and therefore Is a practical expert as well as a theorist.
CHICAGO, Ill., Aug. 25. -- Helpless before "Big Bill" James's sharpshooting, O'Day's Cubs slipped back a notch today, Stallings's stalwart Braves winning by 4 to 1, and lifting themselves to one point below a tie with the Giants for first place in The National flag scramble.
SIGNIFICANT contrasts between the economic attitude of presentday youth and that of our fore  bears' youth are indicated in the historical collection of toy savings banks which constitutes a hobby of Elmer Rand Jacobs, controller of the Seamen's Rank for Savings at 74 Wall Street.
Just how Jones's wife got Jones to go to the wax-works exhibition with her on a Sunday evening is a matter that that little woman alone knows, and she hasn't told about it But Jones went. Now as a consequence he is in a fair way of becoming an inebriate.
After more than a hundred years of manufacturing in its own plant, beginning today the American Bible Society, which owns Bible House, Actor Place, will close up its press, electrotyping and composing rooms.
CARDIFF, Wales, Sept. 3 -- A brief comparison of Britain's coal production with that of other countries illustrates that the present coal problem in this island is not so much a "crisis" as a chronic condition.
An interesting lecture on the Newcomb two-cycle internal combustion engine was delivered by Joseph H. Freeman last week at the Automobile Club of America from which encouraging results have been obtained. Mr. Freeman stated that the principal point in its favor was a high mechanical efficiency.
The logical method of transportation in the commercial world is the power wagon, which has opened the way for simplification of the transportation problem. The power wagon for delivering and general trucking is purely a mechanical proposition, and, like all other machines, it can be built to do a given amount of work in a definite time and at a certain cost under any known condition.
Women in the upper classes learn to run their autos and to repair them. Nobody thinks it unwomanly for girls to swing golf clubs and hockey sticks. Then why should not girls be taught the principles of machinery and how to swing hammers?
Govt officials, planters and mfrs agree on joint mechanization program; appt Natl Cotton Council as agency; Agr Dept spokesman and J L McCaffrey comment
PARIS, June 10.--The allegorical ceilings which Baudry has painted for Mr. Vanderbilt are at present being exhibited, with a number of other works by the same artist, in the building known as the Orangerie.
MECHANICAL improvements and batteryless receivers, operated by the house lighting current, are the distinctive factors in the 1926-27 radio styles. Many manufacturers have incorporated in their new models the drum control method of tuning instead of protruding dials.
The American Society of Mechanical Engineers, which was organized in this City last April, began the business of its first annual meeting yesterday afternoon at the Union League Theatre. About 60 members were in attendance, including Henry R. Worthington, Prof. John. E. Sweet, J.C.
Some idea of the complicated planning needed to keep the huge complement of motor vehicles in use on the Continent by the Allies may be had from the following account of British methods, by "Eyewitness" in one of the London papers:
That anything as distinctly modern and prosaic as an industrial truck could have an interesting history seems rather unlikely, yet it is recorded that even the Egyptians and Assyrians had their industrial trucks -- of a very primitive type, to be sure -- but efficient enough to carry some of the great blocks of stone used in building the pyramids.
The second annual Fair of the Agricultural and Mechanics' Institute terminated this evening with a trotting match for a premium of $500. The first heat was won by Mountain Maid; time, 2:243/4. The second heat was won by Fanny Allen; time, 2:27. In the third heat both horses came in abreast.
The Navy Department in Washington during the last few days has been holding conferences with representatives of the shipyard workers' unions, and it was rumored yesterday that an increase in wages was to be made.
Simple course in elementary science and its influence on modern life will be taught in N Y pub schools
The question in regard to the use of soda in food, as to whether it is noxious or not, is one which cannot be directly answered. Like anything else which might be wholesome in small quantities, if used to excess it can become injurious. Bakingpowders, other than those where ferments are employed, may be said to be a modern invention...
BUICK displays two attractive coach models, one on the small and the other on the large six-cylinder chassis. The five-passenger brougham sedan is another popular model, and there are two sedans, one for five and the other for seven passengers.
Feature article on experiments to cut off noise of motor from passengers by insulated cabin walls; other experiments
Only a few years ago there were loud complaints on the part of the public about the noises of motor vehicles and it cannot be denied that during the first four or five years of the motor car era hardly a silent motor vehicle of any kind, as judged by the modern standard, was to be found on the road.
Glowing tribute to the work of the British mechanical transport at the front is paid by W. Beach Thomas, in a communication to The London Daily Mail, dated with the usual ambiguous "North of France." He says:
Professors LYMAN and NEWTON, of Yale College, who went abroad last Spring to purchase scientific works and apparatus for the various departments of this University, have returned to New-Haven. While in Europe Professor LYMAN bought $6,000 worth of physical and mechanical appliances for the Sheffield Scientific School.
J L Cooke stresses need to cut costs, Natl Materials Handling Exposition; urges Cong appropriation for survey; exposition described
THE Building Superintendent of the New York Public Library was in a great hurry, but he let fall this remark:
Diffracting grating invented by Dr. J. A. Brashear will tell composition and distance of stars, exhibited at annual meeting of American Soc. of Mechanical Engineers
Editorial says success of North is due to its technical superiorityWhen it was found, upon the outbreak of the rebellion, that the traitor FLOYD, as Secretary of War, had, in view, of the event, almost completely stripped us of arms and present means of defence or aggression, we predicted that in one short year the inventive genius of the North would devise new ones so superior to the old that the latter would be comparatively worthless in the hands of the rebels, and utterly unable to contend with our new instruments of war. Never was a predictionmore truly fulfilled. Not only are our new creations overwhelming the South, but they constitute for the whole world an era in modern warfare as important as that which followed the invention of gunpowder. The little Monitor, which hardly shows her deck above the water's edge, and which carries but two guns, is, according to English authority, the most powerful and destructive vessel afloat. Assuming that she could not be made fast to, and perhaps captured in this way, she might bid defiance to all the wooden ships composing the British navy. A well-directed shot from one of her guns would send the largest of them to the bottom, while her iron plates would be impenetrable to any metal they could, as now armed, throw. The fight in Hampton Roads has been echoed around the world, and dates the commencement of an entirely new system of naval warfare and fortifications. All nations, as far as their previous armaments, preparations for defence, and naval forces, are concerned, are instantly reduced to a common level. All are equally impotent or equally powerful. Past supremacy and prestige go for nothing; while these in future are again to be contended for, unless by general consent nations, as they must sooner or later at a similar crisis, consent to treat each other as friends, instead of enemies bent on mutual destruction through modes so terrible and expensive that even the successful party may sink under the incredible burden imposed.
The late William J. Heins might be called a man of many manias, that term being applied in its inoffensive sense. He lived on a large farm in the township of Manchester, N.J., which he called Sunnyside. It is somewhat over two miles from Paterson centre. The house, which has been his home for 19 years and where he died, is an eighth ...
The thousands of ingenious mechanical devices to be found in insects indicate that they were developed from design, not from chance variation and selection, according to Dr. Lucien Cuentot, an eminent French biologist, who made the leading address yesterday before the Second International Congress of Eugenics.
The remarkable similarity between human hands and those of orang outangs and other higher apes was graphically shown yesterday by Dr. Raymond L. Ditmars of the New York Zoological Society at the closing meeting of the American Society of Mammalogists at the American Museum of Natural History.
Mechanical table believed to have been made for Marie Antoinette; Mrs W B Cutting presents Roman marble mosaic; collection of Eur textiles presented by Van S MerleSmith
awarded medal by Amer Soc of Mechanical Engineers for work in developing rules for fire prevention, at annual meeting in N Y C
Modern motion theory verified by automatic computing machines, research of Profs E W Brown and W J Eckert
Martin's trial begins; talking record made by Dr L I Duke denying bribe was made to be offered
FROM one aspect Washington becomes more like a huge factory  every day. Wherever mechanical appliances can be installed to save labor or time it is done by order of that most arbitrary Chief of Staff, Necessity.
KEENE, N.Y., May 28 (UP)-- Major Paul Mellen Chamberlain, internationally known horologist, died yesterday at his home here after an illness of several months. His age was 75.
George E. Pancoast, mechanical director and chief engineer of the Hearst newspapers, died of pneumonia yesterday morning at the Long Island College Hospital, Brooklyn, at the age of 77. He had lived at 67 Hanson Place, Brooklyn.
More than 2,000 engineers, representing practically the entire range of American industry, will attend the annual meeting of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers to be held in the Engineering Societies Building, New York City, Dec. 4 to 7.
With the return to peace conditions, the United States Navy has resumed the practice of training a certain percentage of its officers in advanced engineering to fit them to meet and make use of the continued progress in the engineering field.
US House sub-com rept on tour sees lack of motivation for output and bureaucracy hampering indus progress
Berlin near break; arrest of German engineers given as last of series of offenses by Soviet
The twenty-third National Business Show will open in Madison Square Garden tomorrow afternoon. In connection with the show the first Natio nal Efficiency Congress will be held, at which expert technicians representing various departments of national efficiency concerns will confer with a view to reducing the nation's office waste bill, now estimated by industrial engineers at $900,000,000 annually.
LONDON, Sept. 15.--Eric, the Robot, lurched a little unsteadily to his metallic feet today, stretched out one metallic arm for silence and then made a speech opening an exhibition of engineering models.
WASHINGTON, May 8.--Carroll Livingston Riker, 78 years old, mechanical engineer, inventor and originator of the Riker Overland Seaway, legislation for which has long been before Congress, died of...
Pittsburgh Sun-Telegraph and Pittsburgh Press close when members of Newspaper and News Distributors Office Workers Union local (AFL) walk out in protest against refusal to grant closed shop
Miss Dorothy Riddell, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. John F. Riddell, gave a luncheon yesterday at Hampshire House for members of the junior committee of the New York Diet Kitchen Association, who are aiding in the plans for the pre-opening performance of "The Mechanical Heart," with Ina Claire and Philip Merivale, next Monday night at the Henry Miller Theatre for the benefit of the association.
The United States Rubber Company for the first six months of 1921 reports a net deficit of $4,875,223, after all interest and other charges. The company for the full year 1920 earned $21,220,982, which, after allowing for preferred dividends, was eqaual to $19.77 a share on the $81,000,000 of common stock outstanding  at the close of that year.
Representatives of the A. F. of L.'s mechanical unions joined today in efforts to bring about a truce in the dispute between publishers of the four Wilkes-Barre newspapers and the C. I. O.'s Newspaper Guild, a fight which left this city without local papers for the second successive day. The mediators
Edwin S. Carman, manufacturer, of Cleveland, has been elected President of the American Society of Techanical Engineers in a mail ballot covering a membership of 13,000, comprising engineers, managers and technologists in every industrial centre of the country.
Warns of dangers to Amer air leadership in lr accompanying the annual rept of the Natl Advisory Com for Aeronautics
SEBASTOPOL, June 18 (Associated Press).--Closer relations between Russia and the United States are desired by General Baron Wrangel, Commander of the South Russia Volunteer Army, he declared today. He said the United States had "shown itself a champion of real democracy by intervening in the great war," and said he hoped worthy Russian students might attend American universities.
RADIO broadcasters are experimenting with, in fact some have adopted, a new form of program presentation. It is  called electrical transcription, which means that the programs are broadcast from records. The disks are not played on a regular phonograph ...
Through improvement in the construction of automobiles, especially in the facility with which they can be handled, as well as through the greater skill attained by drivers, largely due to simplified mechanism, the number of automobile accidents is decreasing yearly in proportion to the increasing number of automobiles marketed each year.
HONOLULU, Aug. 17 (AP). -- When Arthur Goebel, the Hollywood stunt flier, was escorted from Wheeler Field, where he landed today to win the first prize of $25,000 offered by James Dole for a non-stop flight from the mainland to the Hawaiian Islands, he was told that he could have anything he wanted.
Publishers from all parts of the country went on record before the adjournment of the annual convention of the American Newspaper Publishers' Association at the Waldorf yesterday against the forty-four-hour week now being agitated by the mechanical trades employed in newspaper publishing.
Ct of Appeals of Dist of Col denies Radio Comm's motion to dismiss case of WTRL; WCLB, WKBO, WLBX, WIBS plead mechanical trouble as cause of deviation from assignments; WSGH, WSDA hearing postponed
recognition night rally under direction of mechanical sections; Govt voices official commendation for war work; new Chairman and Executive Com elected
Pilotless AAF C-54 completes 1st such trans-atlantic flight; revolutionary uses for war and cargo transport predicted
Existing conditions in industry, according to the annual report of the management division of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, are regarded as an ultimate source of strength rather than weakness.
AT last matters were arranged and I was invited to visit the dreamer of dreams. I was to see Maurice Maeterlinck, the mystic whose ear has caught "the murmur of eternity on the horizon," whose eye has distinguished an open road between the seen and the unseen.
The scarcity of hard coal, especially in the domestic sizes, makes this Winter an unknown quantity with many possibilities of trouble to householders. For their furnaces, usually fed with the stove or chestnut anthracite, they are asked ...
CHICAGO, April 19 -- There was scattered liquidation in corn futures at times last week on the Board of Trade here, but the market showed considerable resistance to selling and closed yesterday at losses of 1 1/4 to l 7/8 cents a bushel for the week, with May at 85 7/8 cents, July at 88 5/8 to 88 1/2 and September at 90 3/4 to 90 5/8.
WASHINGTON, March 18.--Respect for German technical skill has diminished among some navy officials as a result of disappointments with a German-designed Diesel engine that has been used in some of the navy's new submarines.
CHICAGO, Jan. 10. -- During the last two days the increase in the attendance at the show of cycles in Tattersalls has been so marked as to justify the remark of one of the exhibitors to the effect that Chicago has gone cycling mad. It is, by double odds, the largest and best-attended cycle show ever held here.
The Theatre oF the Royal Institution was crowded on the occasion of Mr. Haweis's lecture on Friday evening. Among other violins, he exhibited two by Stradiuarius, one belonging to the Emperor of Russia, the other lent by his Royal Highness the Duke of Edinburgh--a Gaspar Di Salo bass, found in the late Tarisio's bedroom with his corpse.
Ever since she arrived in New York, Signora Grandi, wife of the Italian Foreign Minister, has been looking forward to purchasing gifts for her children.
Somewhat peculiar conditions exist at the present time with reference to the means for conveying information about automobiles to those who are interested but have no time or inclination to make a serious study of the subject. The difficulties are commonly underrated, probably because most people mentally associate automobiles with bicycles, and remember how easily a sufficient practical knowledge of bicycles was Acquired during the period of their introduction.
sr bondholders carry fight against Igoe to Appeals Ct; charge he ignored Appellate Ct mandate in acting on mgrs; ask mandamus writ to force plan confirmation with mgr changes; Igoe atty enters denials
Views of F O Wilhofft on possibilities of rotor principle embodied by A Flettner in his ships
A declaration against a forty-fourhour week for the mechanical departments of newspapers, or anything less than forty-eight hours, was made yes-- terday by unanimous vote of the mem-- bers of the American Newspaper Pub-- lishers' Association at their annual convention in the Waldorf.
Conducting research work with Dr H P De Forest at Cornell Medical Laboratories to determine mechanical basis for method devised by them as cure for effects of nerve irritation commonly mistaken for rheumatism
Guild calls strike against 4 papers when contract negotiations collapse; pickets try to stop deliveries, Wilkes-Barre, Pa
C. H. McGwire, suicide, blamed for explosion; review of unsuccessful attempt by McGwire to break W. Kafitz testament which Lawler upheld
The ballet "Coppelia," given yesterday afternoon and again in the evening in the grand ballroom of the Waldorf-Astoria by amateurs, had enough swing and go in it and beauty of costumes to deserve comparison with the professional rendition of the fascinating ballet. The large ballroom was well filled at both performances.
The anniversary of WASHINGTON'S Birthday will be observed in this city, to-morrow, very generally. The Legislature have adjourned over till; Wednesday; banks and insurance offices will be closed, and all our daily newspapers will suspend publication until Wednesday noon; Governor BANKS is to deliver an oration before the Mercantile Library Association; a great gathering of children in Fanueil Hall;
Three trunk line subways serving downtown Manhattan were choked with pasengers in the rush period yesterday morning when mechanical trouble delayed thousands. A dozen stations overflowed with struggling passengers.
IT IS a pity that that great German actor Emil Jannings should have been caught napping and permitted himself to appear in such a tawdry, vulgar and strained story as that told in "The Street of Sin," now on view at the Rialto Theatre. Mr. Jannings has contributed a number of excellent performances to the screen and until this present offering he has not been seen in any picture that did not possess considerable merit. He was splendid as Louis XV in "Du Barry," known over here as "Passion"; his interpretation of the old porter in "The Last Laugh" was an achievement; his characterization of Peter the Great was powerful; his portrait of the bank clerk of German origin in "The Way of All Flesh" possessed no end of imagination; he was fine as Stephen Huller in "Variety." Then, in his previous picture, "The Last Command," he not only gave a most forceful performance but he lent to the rle of the Russian General the traits of a fallen aristocrat, both in expression and gesture.In "The Street of Sin" Mr. Jannings is for the first time out of his element, for evidently his knowledge of London's underworld is limited. As Basher Bill he endeavors to live up to the coarseness of this artificial yarn, which strikes one as having been inspired by Thomas Burke's "Limehouse Nights." The strength of Mr. Burke's short stories was in his remarkably faithful description of the persons and of the district. He even studied the spelling of the pronunciation of the dark characters of Limehouse. "The Street of Sin," which is accompanied by some of Albert Chevalier's old costermonger songs and "Old Chinatown," from the first Charlot Revue, was said some time ago to be a story of Soho, but on the screen the district of London remains unnamed. It does not bring to mind any spot of the English metropolis any more than Basher Bill rings true as an English type. Aside from his actions, Mr. Jannings is too well shaven to look like a cockney crook. A mustache might have helped matters and also a soft pedal on some of the actions; not that London's burglars are any better than the burglars of any other country, but one might spend many a sleepless night in the dives and dens of Limehouse, Lambeth, White-chapel or Soho without ever seeing a suggestion of any of the incidents depicted in this picture.Even to those who may not appreciate the weaknesses of the characterizations and the inaccuracy of the atmospheric effects the story itself is none too inviting. It is a lumbering affair that might have been told in one reel instead of six. There is a Salvation Army lassie, impersonated by the charming Fay Wray, who is hardly the type of girl that would be sent with one timid and frail man on a mission to such a district. She is a theatrical Salvation Army girl who has not missed an opportunity to make herself attractive. The beauty of this young woman causes the renowned Basher Bill for the time being to renounce his pals and help in the Salvation Army shelter. He is so infatuated with Elizabeth, the gentle Salvation Army worker, that he deserts the frowsy Annie, with whom he has been living.Mauritz Stiller, who looks at London through Swedish glasses, fancies that piles of bank-notes are to be found on Hampstead Heath or not far from it. There is a burglary there and the malefactors come away with a wad of money. Mr. Stiller does not trouble to show the burglars traveling from their retreat, where-ever it is, to Hampstead, which would probably make one of the most interesting stretches in the picture. Neither does he give the slightest idea how they return to their hangout. They flit in this film to Hampstead and then, after a fade-out, come back to count up the haul.To show his strength, and Mr. Jannings is exceptionally powerful, Basher Bill holds arm high the Salvation Army man, the poor chap not being permitted to struggle while he is in Basher Bill's clutches. It is in this same "pub" that Elizabeth goes around soliciting money with her tambourine, and Mr. Stiller decides to have some of the disgusting crew expectorate in the instrument while another man gives this attractive girl the remnants of his cigar.Mr. Jannings's acting is sometimes as forced as the chronicle. He is fierce and forbidding, cruel and coarse, and the character always seemed strained.A Distressing Chronicle.In "Dawn," a British production, Sybil Thorndike, one of the really fine artists of the English theatre, gives a sterling and disgnified impersonation of Edith Cavell. The picture itself is quite cleverly produced; in fact, it is easily the outstanding achievement to come from Great Britain, sad and painful chronicle though it is. It is a film that ends with a flash of Miss Cavell's grave, and the suggestion of the shooting of Miss Cavell (the actual scene has been excluded) is another of the depressing incidents.This picture begins with glimpses of Miss Cavell's hospital in Brussels. The actual scenes are shown in some instances, the exteriors having been filmed in the Belgian capital. Some of it is done extraordinarily well, although there are times when the settings appear to be cramped, especially in those passages depicting the fugitives awaiting a chance to steal away with the assistance of Nurse Cavell and Mme. Bodard and Mme. Rappard.Mr. Wilcox tells his gruesome story with proper suspense and he depicts adroitly the dread of discovery. Except for a few instances, he portrays the Germans in sensible, restrained fashion, some of them being filled with sympathy for Miss Cavell. But although this film holds the attention it is a grim, disheartening echo of the war. And it should be remembered that Miss Cavell's last words were:"Patriotism is not enough. I must have no hatred or bitterness for any one."In a letter regarding this picture, Lord Birkenhead wrote:"Does any one suppose that the woman who, at the very moment of her agony, could speak like this [referring to her last utterance] would permit her death to be commercialized, with the certain result that the bitter memories associated with it would be kept alive and fertilized so as to prevent the sweet restoration of friendship and good relationship between the nations of the world?"A Mechanical Story.WITH all its possibilities for a picture, Herbert Brenon has fashioned from "Laugh, Clewn, Laugh!", the play by David Belasco and Tom Cushing, nothing more than an unimaginative series of scenes, which, although some of them are effective units, leave one cold. It has neither heart nor soul and there are quite a number of absurdly extravagant sequences.In one episode the girl, Simonetta, whom the clown, Tito Beppi, has rescued as a waif, hurts her leg. The young waster, Count Luigi Ravelli, discovers Simonetta and, filled with compassion for her evidently slight injury, he carries her into his palatial house. He does not stop in the drawing room, or the library, but goes all the way to his own room, where, after he has bandaged the injury, he imprints kisses on Simonetta's pretty foot.The dinner party in another scene is a thoroughly moviesque affair, but even such ideas would be pardonable if the action of the drama were more human. The old, old story of Grimaldi comes forth as if it were thought by the producer to be something new, and Nils Asther's portrayal in one chapter of the giggling nobleman is by no means effective. Luigi, through wine and women, is supposed to be in a highly nervous condition and Tito, played by Lon Chaney, has lost his grip on life so that he sobs. They, the laughing count and the tearful clown, go to the same nerve specialist and both are recommended the same prescriptiona wholesome love. Simonetta, so it happens, is the girl with whom the young nobleman and the middle-aged clown are infatuated.Rajah Menjou.A LITTLE levity fell on Broadway last week in the shape of "The Tiger Lady," wherein the dependable Adolphe Menjou plays an exceedingly amusing part, that of a stage super, named Henri, who falls head over heels in love with the imperious creature who reigns over the show. The background is Paris and the story is farcical, but nevertheless quite intriguing It has moments that are delightful, especially an episode where this super, arrayed in his glittering Rajah's stage costume, invades a restaurant with all the aplomb of an Eastern potentate. He must have a certain table (because it is near the one at which are seated the Tiger Lady and her entourage of a Duke, a Marquis and a Count) and insists that a regular patron of the restaurant, now busy refreshing the inner man, shall resign in favor of himself. Once the man has been prevailed upon to move, Henri, looking like the wealthiest of Rajahs, languidly takes his place. He is a pale Hindu, but that does not influence the Tiger Lady against him. She is, in fact, so interested in this begemmed and turbaned knight of a torrid land that she, after a look or two, goes over to the Rajah's table. Soon her escort joins her and all are impressed by the Rajah's in-difference to everything, except the Tiger Lady.When the waiter hazards offering the Rajah the check, a mere matter of 19,587 francs, the Rajah does not quite conceal the shock. But the Duke, the Marquis and the Count are so eager to foot the bill that the good-natured (for the nonce) Rajah decides that they shall be delighted and forthwith hands them the disturbing piece of paper. He then decamps with the placidly beautiful Tiger Lady, who in the privacy of her apartment confides to Henri, as the Rajah, that what she admires most in a man is courage. Offhand, she says that she tests her suitors by seeing whether they are brave enough to enter a tiger's cage and rescue her immaculate gloves.It is a new angle on Francis R. Stockton's classic, "The Lady or the Tiger."Mr. Menjou is admirable as the masquerading super. Evelyn Brent is stunning as the Tiger Lady.IT IS a pity that that great German actor Emil Jannings should have been caught napping and permitted himself to appear in such a tawdry, vulgar and strained story as that told in "The Street of Sin," now on view at the Rialto Theatre. Mr. Jannings has contributed a number of excellent performances to the screen and until this present offering he has not been seen in any picture that did not possess considerable merit. He was splendid as Louis XV in "Du Barry," known over here as "Passion"; his interpretation of the old porter in "The Last Laugh" was an achievement; his characterization of Peter the Great was powerful; his portrait of the bank clerk of German origin in "The Way of All Flesh" possessed no end of imagination; he was fine as Stephen Huller in "Variety." Then, in his previous picture, "The Last Command," he not only gave a most forceful performance but he lent to the rle of the Russian General the traits of a fallen aristocrat, both in expression and gesture.In "The Street of Sin" Mr. Jannings is for the first time out of his element, for evidently his knowledge of London's underworld is limited. As Basher Bill he endeavors to live up to the coarseness of this artificial yarn, which strikes one as having been inspired by Thomas Burke's "Limehouse Nights." The strength of Mr. Burke's short stories was in his remarkably faithful description of the persons and of the district. He even studied the spelling of the pronunciation of the dark characters of Limehouse. "The Street of Sin," which is accompanied by some of Albert Chevalier's old costermonger songs and "Old Chinatown," from the first Charlot Revue, was said some time ago to be a story of Soho, but on the screen the district of London remains unnamed. It does not bring to mind any spot of the English metropolis any more than Basher Bill rings true as an English type. Aside from his actions, Mr. Jannings is too well shaven to look like a cockney crook. A mustache might have helped matters and also a soft pedal on some of the actions; not that London's burglars are any better than the burglars of any other country, but one might spend many a sleepless night in the dives and dens of Limehouse, Lambeth, White-chapel or Soho without ever seeing a suggestion of any of the incidents depicted in this picture.Even to those who may not appreciate the weaknesses of the characterizations and the inaccuracy of the atmospheric effects the story itself is none too inviting. It is a lumbering affair that might have been told in one reel instead of six. There is a Salvation Army lassie, impersonated by the charming Fay Wray, who is hardly the type of girl that would be sent with one timid and frail man on a mission to such a district. She is a theatrical Salvation Army girl who has not missed an opportunity to make herself attractive. The beauty of this young woman causes the renowned Basher Bill for the time being to renounce his pals and help in the Salvation Army shelter. He is so infatuated with Elizabeth, the gentle Salvation Army worker, that he deserts the frowsy Annie, with whom he has been living.Mauritz Stiller, who looks at London through Swedish glasses, fancies that piles of bank-notes are to be found on Hampstead Heath or not far from it. There is a burglary there and the malefactors come away with a wad of money. Mr. Stiller does not trouble to show the burglars traveling from their retreat, where-ever it is, to Hampstead, which would probably make one of the most interesting stretches in the picture. Neither does he give the slightest idea how they return to their hangout. They flit in this film to Hampstead and then, after a fade-out, come back to count up the haul.To show his strength, and Mr. Jannings is exceptionally powerful, Basher Bill holds arm high the Salvation Army man, the poor chap not being permitted to struggle while he is in Basher Bill's clutches. It is in this same "pub" that Elizabeth goes around soliciting money with her tambourine, and Mr. Stiller decides to have some of the disgusting crew expectorate in the instrument while another man gives this attractive girl the remnants of his cigar.Mr. Jannings's acting is sometimes as forced as the chronicle. He is fierce and forbidding, cruel and coarse, and the character always seemed strained.A Distressing Chronicle.In "Dawn," a British production, Sybil Thorndike, one of the really fine artists of the English theatre, gives a sterling and disgnified impersonation of Edith Cavell. The picture itself is quite cleverly produced; in fact, it is easily the outstanding achievement to come from Great Britain, sad and painful chronicle though it is. It is a film that ends with a flash of Miss Cavell's grave, and the suggestion of the shooting of Miss Cavell (the actual scene has been excluded) is another of the depressing incidents.This picture begins with glimpses of Miss Cavell's hospital in Brussels. The actual scenes are shown in some instances, the exteriors having been filmed in the Belgian capital. Some of it is done extraordinarily well, although there are times when the settings appear to be cramped, especially in those passages depicting the fugitives awaiting a chance to steal away with the assistance of Nurse Cavell and Mme. Bodard and Mme. Rappard.Mr. Wilcox tells his gruesome story with proper suspense and he depicts adroitly the dread of discovery. Except for a few instances, he portrays the Germans in sensible, restrained fashion, some of them being filled with sympathy for Miss Cavell. But although this film holds the attention it is a grim, disheartening echo of the war. And it should be remembered that Miss Cavell's last words were:"Patriotism is not enough. I must have no hatred or bitterness for any one."In a letter regarding this picture, Lord Birkenhead wrote:"Does any one suppose that the woman who, at the very moment of her agony, could speak like this [referring to her last utterance] would permit her death to be commercialized, with the certain result that the bitter memories associated with it would be kept alive and fertilized so as to prevent the sweet restoration of friendship and good relationship between the nations of the world?"A Mechanical Story.WITH all its possibilities for a picture, Herbert Brenon has fashioned from "Laugh, Clewn, Laugh!", the play by David Belasco and Tom Cushing, nothing more than an unimaginative series of scenes, which, although some of them are effective units, leave one cold. It has neither heart nor soul and there are quite a number of absurdly extravagant sequences.In one episode the girl, Simonetta, whom the clown, Tito Beppi, has rescued as a waif, hurts her leg. The young waster, Count Luigi Ravelli, discovers Simonetta and, filled with compassion for her evidently slight injury, he carries her into his palatial house. He does not stop in the drawing room, or the library, but goes all the way to his own room, where, after he has bandaged the injury, he imprints kisses on Simonetta's pretty foot.The dinner party in another scene is a thoroughly moviesque affair, but even such ideas would be pardonable if the action of the drama were more human. The old, old story of Grimaldi comes forth as if it were thought by the producer to be something new, and Nils Asther's portrayal in one chapter of the giggling nobleman is by no means effective. Luigi, through wine and women, is supposed to be in a highly nervous condition and Tito, played by Lon Chaney, has lost his grip on life so that he sobs. They, the laughing count and the tearful clown, go to the same nerve specialist and both are recommended the same prescriptiona wholesome love. Simonetta, so it happens, is the girl with whom the young nobleman and the middle-aged clown are infatuated.Rajah Menjou.A LITTLE levity fell on Broadway last week in the shape of "The Tiger Lady," wherein the dependable Adolphe Menjou plays an exceedingly amusing part, that of a stage super, named Henri, who falls head over heels in love with the imperious creature who reigns over the show. The background is Paris and the story is farcical, but nevertheless quite intriguing It has moments that are delightful, especially an episode where this super, arrayed in his glittering Rajah's stage costume, invades a restaurant with all the aplomb of an Eastern potentate. He must have a certain table (because it is near the one at which are seated the Tiger Lady and her entourage of a Duke, a Marquis and a Count) and insists that a regular patron of the restaurant, now busy refreshing the inner man, shall resign in favor of himself. Once the man has been prevailed upon to move, Henri, looking like the wealthiest of Rajahs, languidly takes his place. He is a pale Hindu, but that does not influence the Tiger Lady against him. She is, in fact, so interested in this begemmed and turbaned knight of a torrid land that she, after a look or two, goes over to the Rajah's table. Soon her escort joins her and all are impressed by the Rajah's in-difference to everything, except the Tiger Lady.When the waiter hazards offering the Rajah the check, a mere matter of 19,587 francs, the Rajah does not quite conceal the shock. But the Duke, the Marquis and the Count are so eager to foot the bill that the good-natured (for the nonce) Rajah decides that they shall be delighted and forthwith hands them the disturbing piece of paper. He then decamps with the placidly beautiful Tiger Lady, who in the privacy of her apartment confides to Henri, as the Rajah, that what she admires most in a man is courage. Offhand, she says that she tests her suitors by seeing whether they are brave enough to enter a tiger's cage and rescue her immaculate gloves.It is a new angle on Francis R. Stockton's classic, "The Lady or the Tiger."Mr. Menjou is admirable as the masquerading super. Evelyn Brent is stunning as the Tiger Lady.
Spot smoked sheets were bid up to a new high at $1.16 1/2 in the crude rubber market yesterday, an advance of 4 1/2 cents over Wednesday, and a record high since 1916. Other leading grades advanced from 1 to 5 cents per pound. The buying of spot came from no particular class, brokers reported, middle size and large size manufacturers of tires and makers of mechanical articles combining in the demand.
PETROGRAD, Jan. 14, (Dispatch to The London Daily News.) -- It is now beyond all question that the desperate trial of strength in Poland has turned against the Germans.
John Vander[???], No. 23 Fulton-street, for a collection of Agricultural implements -- Silver medal.John Vander[???], No. 23 Fulton-street, for a collection of Agricultural implements -- Silver medal.
PARIS, Aug. 14. -- Scientists returning from the Congress of Psychology at Geneva report a remarkable debate over the question whether animals, including man, move and act of their own volition or from purely mechanico-chemical impulses. The debate was precipitated in the section of animal psychology, which now for the sixth time has been a chief feature of the congress, by Georges Bohn of the Sorbonne.
" Canned music," as John Philip Sousa once called it, is to become an issue in Congress again this year. On Dec. 18 a delegation of composers will go to Washington to attack the bill introduced in the House on the first day of the present session by Congressman Currier, which, it is asserted by Victor Herbert and others, seeks to deprive the composer of the rights in his compositions.
The American Railway Association is preparing to make a series of exhaustive tests of a new method of drafting locomotives by which they expect to show a practical way of reducing their fuel bills, prolonging the life of locomotive boilers, increasing the hauling power and speed ...
New mech system for loading and unloading trains will speed handling of mail at new PO Bldg at Penn Station
LONDON, Sept. 14--England is sad out not at all down-hearted because he Shamrock V lost the first race if the America's Cup series yesterday. Everywhere, disappointed Britains are reminding each other that Sir Thomas Lipton has several more chances and may yet bring the cup to England.
The world's biggest wireless plant, to be built at Rocky Point, L.I., by the Radio Corporation of America, will handle 500 words in and 500 words out a minute, simultaneously, the land wire, relay of seventy miles from Rocky Point to the company's office in Broad Street being controlled mechanically, ...
PITTSBURGH, July 1. -- The low prices which prevail in some lines of steel and iron are surprising when it is taken into consideration how busy the mills are turning out these products. Invariably one is met with the remark that books are filled months ahead. Every day small domestic orders are turned away, whereas, six months ago the same manufacturers would have given such orders careful consideration.
As a wartime measure, the United States Treasury is issuing punch-board checks instead of the time-honored paper checks. And if you fold, twist, moisten or even puncture the check with a pin or a spindle, you will disrupt the work of a highly sensitive tabulation machine and cause no little confusion in the counting rooms of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.
An inquiry into the safety of operation of the "one-man" trains of the Brooklyn Rapid Transit Company will probably be made by the Transit Commission as a result of Thursday's accident in the Interborough subway, it was learned yesterday. The B.R.T. is now operating these trains by per
LONDON. -- Whatever stories are being told today of King George are stories of a conventional English country gentleman, a man of warm heart, wide sympathy and, to all those who met him, straight, simple, sincere and kind.
Christmas is already here -- in the department stores. The managers of half a dozen or more of these said yesterday that business is now far better than it was a year ago at the corresponding time in every respect.
Comparative actions of brains and of the human and animal bodies actuated by them are pictured in the Russian film, "Mechanics of the Brain," which was shown last night for the first time in this country at a private meeting of the New York Society of Clinical Psychiatry at the Academy of Medicine, Fifth Avenue and 103d Street. The film tends to show that the brain of the dog, frog, hippopotamus or ape as well as that of the child or adult all operate on exactly the same principles. It is the result of experiments during the last twenty-eight years in the laboratory of Professor Ivan Paviov, who received the Nobel Prize for his work with the so-called "conditioned reflex.""Human beings learn such processes as eating in exactly the same way that animals must learn these processes," said Dr. Howard Scott Liddell, Professor of Physiology in Cornell University, in his talk accompanying the film. "An animal could build up in time eating rituals as complicated as those of human beings if it were not for the limitations imposed by the smaller capacity of the animal cortex."Subjects Considered Machines.The film, surveying animal and human behavior, pictures the mechanisms which are necessary for simple as well as complicated types of behavior, so that both the animal and the human being are considered as machines. Pavlov dismantles these machines to show how they are constructed."The result of this mechanical view of behavior is that all behavior can be analyzed into reflexes, a re-flex being the response of the animal to a change of environment which involves the nervous system," Professor Liddell explained. "According to Pavlov, the reflex is a mechanism because it always occurs with machinelike regularity whenever conditions remain the same. So-called spontaneous or voluntary activities of animals or man seem to be capricious and not reducible to mechanical conditions."When, however, proper precautions are taken spontaneity or capriciousness disappears, and by careful analysis and experiment even the most complicated behavior can be shown to occur invariably according to laws which can be formulated definitely."Elaborate experiments with dogs, cows, frogs and apes, as well as children and adults, were shown to support this theory.Ape and Baby Compared.One experiment compares the ways in which an ape and a baby learn to associate environment with food, fear and play, tending to show there is no essential difference. When a red ball is shown to the ape, the animal immediately drops whatever it is doing and runs for food. It shows no reaction when the experiment is repeated with a blue ball.A dog is shown which had learned to associate 78 vibrations on the metronome with food, but reminds unaffected when the number of vibrations is 200. In the same way, an elephant received a coin with his trunk and, having learned to associate it with food, immediately takes it to the keeper and exchanges it for meat and potatoes.The first and only public showing of the film in New York City will be held on March 19 at the Engineers Club in connection with a lecture explaining the work of Pavlov. It will be under the auspices of the New School for Social Research and the American Society for Cultural Relations with Russia.Comparative actions of brains and of the human and animal bodies actuated by them are pictured in the Russian film, "Mechanics of the Brain," which was shown last night for the first time in this country at a private meeting of the New York Society of Clinical Psychiatry at the Academy of Medicine, Fifth Avenue and 103d Street. The film tends to show that the brain of the dog, frog, hippopotamus or ape as well as that of the child or adult all operate on exactly the same principles. It is the result of experiments during the last twenty-eight years in the laboratory of Professor Ivan Paviov, who received the Nobel Prize for his work with the so-called "conditioned reflex.""Human beings learn such processes as eating in exactly the same way that animals must learn these processes," said Dr. Howard Scott Liddell, Professor of Physiology in Cornell University, in his talk accompanying the film. "An animal could build up in time eating rituals as complicated as those of human beings if it were not for the limitations imposed by the smaller capacity of the animal cortex."Subjects Considered Machines.The film, surveying animal and human behavior, pictures the mechanisms which are necessary for simple as well as complicated types of behavior, so that both the animal and the human being are considered as machines. Pavlov dismantles these machines to show how they are constructed."The result of this mechanical view of behavior is that all behavior can be analyzed into reflexes, a re-flex being the response of the animal to a change of environment which involves the nervous system," Professor Liddell explained. "According to Pavlov, the reflex is a mechanism because it always occurs with machinelike regularity whenever conditions remain the same. So-called spontaneous or voluntary activities of animals or man seem to be capricious and not reducible to mechanical conditions."When, however, proper precautions are taken spontaneity or capriciousness disappears, and by careful analysis and experiment even the most complicated behavior can be shown to occur invariably according to laws which can be formulated definitely."Elaborate experiments with dogs, cows, frogs and apes, as well as children and adults, were shown to support this theory.Ape and Baby Compared.One experiment compares the ways in which an ape and a baby learn to associate environment with food, fear and play, tending to show there is no essential difference. When a red ball is shown to the ape, the animal immediately drops whatever it is doing and runs for food. It shows no reaction when the experiment is repeated with a blue ball.A dog is shown which had learned to associate 78 vibrations on the metronome with food, but reminds unaffected when the number of vibrations is 200. In the same way, an elephant received a coin with his trunk and, having learned to associate it with food, immediately takes it to the keeper and exchanges it for meat and potatoes.The first and only public showing of the film in New York City will be held on March 19 at the Engineers Club in connection with a lecture explaining the work of Pavlov. It will be under the auspices of the New School for Social Research and the American Society for Cultural Relations with Russia.
The hardships which hard times bring to those of moderate means in a great city like New York, were brought home with unusual force to a young couple in this city last week. They had moved from an apartment downtown to one in the outskirts of Harlem. The husband being unable to leave his work to help in arranging the furniture, his wife went in search of a couple of men to aid her.
Advancement of P Shoup and F E Williamson seen as answer to statement that promotion is difficult
WASHINGTON, Jan. 25.--Figures made public today by the Employment Service of the Department of Labor indicate that there has been a decrease of 3,473,466 in the number of persons employed in industry in the United States in January, 1921, as compared with the number employed one year ago.
BUFFALO, N.Y., Aug. 9. At an early hour this morning, an immense crowd of persons commenced pouring into the city by rail, boat and private conveyances, until at the hour of the opening of the Buffalo Park meeting, over 15,000 persons had assembled to witness the four greatest trotters in the world Goldsmith Maid, American Girl, Lucy and Henry contest for prizes in the same field.
The Sixth Annual Fair of the New-Jersey State Agricultural Society, at Elizabeth City, closed yesterday. It has been a very successful and a very creditable exhibition.  The Sixth Annual Fair of the New-Jersey State Agricultural Society, at Elizabeth City, closed yesterday. It has been a very successful and a very creditable exhibition. The weather has been propitious, the attendance has been very large, and the visitors declare that the display was the finest that the Society has yet put forth. There were fewer extraneous features of an unpleasant nature about it than are usuallyobservable at gatherings of the kind. Excellent order was maintained, not only within the ground, but, within a certain limit, without. By a special enactment of the Legislature of the State, the Society is given exclusive jurisdiction over the territory immediately surrounding the inclosure in which its fairs are held. The Police of Elizabeth City on this occasion watched over the public peace. The gamblers, who took up their quarters, near the entrance on the first day, were speedily put to flight, and a few drunken men who became nuisances were summarily disposed of. The track on which the horses were put through their paces was kept clear, and riotous customers were under constant surveillance. On Thursday probably 20,000 persons visited the Exhibition. The plowing match, the equestrianism and the trotting were the features of that day.
Planes at Shediac, N B; 2 forced down on way, one at Rockland, Me, other at Milledgeville, N B, because of mechanical trouble, fly on to Shediac; description of welcome and departure from Floyd Bennett Field
New York's 1919 Automobile Shop opened with enthusiasm in Madison Square Garden and the 69th Regiment Armory last night. Never has a motor car exhibit in the city had a larger attendance on the first night, and it was easy to see that the majority of visitors
TARRYTOWN, July 20. -- Coroner Frank E. Russell ended the inquest into the Normandie disaster suddenly to-day at the request of counsel for John E. Green, who said that Green wanted to testify to-day for the three inquisitions into the death of Gladys Dodge, W.H. Storms, the pilot, and Stewart Gracie, the engineer, as he wished to leave town on Saturday.
WASHINGTON, Oct. 11.--Details of the new standardized motor truck, said by army officials to be superior to any now in use in the world war, given out tonight by the Council of National Defense, show that as an example of speedy co-operation the truck rivals the famous Liberty aviation engine, which was designed and constructed within a few weeks.
Account of Bellanca airplane from Roosevelt Field for transatlantic flight, with C Chamberlin, pilot, and C A Levine, owner of plane
In the business column of Wednesday's TIMES it was said that "recent business has been very active on electric trains that can be retailed at $2.50 up, according to the size of the outfit."
Natl Bank of Commerce urges growth of diversified crops as solution of problems of that area
licensing of German patents and copyrights to U. S. citizens goes into effect; C. H. McDonald, assisted by E. S. Rogers and F. J. Phelps, will administer regulations; U. S. Patent Office holds up applications for devices which might be of benefit to enemy; applications from German citizens also are pending
"Every one knows that passenger and express trains have regular schedules on the railroad," writes C. S. Barnes in the New Haven System's magazine. Along the Line, "but the fact that freight trains also run at stated times and have certain schedules to follow is something that most people do not know.
ORANGE, N.J., Oct. 16.--With the aid of an electrical ear, which, at a command from an airplane 2,000 feet overhead, turned on the lights in the hall, and an electrical eye, which relayed the order to the street lights without, 800 friends and neighbors of Mr. and Mrs. Thomas A. Edison paid tribute to the aged inventor and ...
The Fair of the Middlesex Mechanic Association opened in this city on the l6th ult. "It is the first exhibition of this Association, and much inter; eat was felt in regard to its success; the result has, I believes equaled the most sanguine expectations of its projectors.
M Daroff warns on use of cheaper fabrics to lower production costs; urges formation of clothing inst, Natl Conf of Clothing Factory Mgrs and Foremen; others s
THE "WHITE COLLAR" GIRL for some time has been favored with the attention of the clothing designers. They have supplied her with attractive yet durable and economical "work clothes" in great variety. But her sisters, busy about the farm or factory, have had little choice of what to wear. It was a housedress or smock or else a suit of men's coveralls or overalls.
THE Consumers' League of New York recently competed a six months' investigation of the  candy industry in Manhattan and neighboring boroughs and is about to publish its findings. The league recommends among many other things that employers be induced to cooperate with the Board of Health in order to protect workers and consumers.
US shirt indus members plan benefit dinner to raise fund for the establishment of Palestine shirt factory
State Council opens sessions; Bengal Premier F Q Huq to conf with pol leaders; disorders reptd, Tinnevelly and Cudappah dists, Madras Prov, and Barisal, Bankura and Mymunsingh; Sind Coll strike called off; student agitators expelled from Khasi hills and Shillong area, Assam, as safeguard against disorder
MOSCOW, Oct. 13 -- Having captured part of one street in a Stalingrad factory district last evening, the Germans mounted another attack against the factory today, but failed to gain and lost two companies in the attempt. The last two days' fighting, after a brief lull, seems to make it clear that the enemy is continuing his attacks, which if not so heavy as last week's, are aimed at the same objective.
MOSCOW, Oct. 26 -- Strong German forces that had been persistently attacking a factory in northern Stalingrad met with some success late yesterday, when detachments gained a foothold within the factory's boundaries. Earlier in the day a few streets in an adjacent settlement had been lost by the Russians.
A four-story factory building at 804 Third Avenue, northwest corner of Twenty-eighth Street, Brooklyn, was sold for Russell T. Starr by the Charles F. Noyes Company, Inc., to Harry Slotkin, ship chandler and wholesale grocer who will alter the property for his own occupancy.
State Industrial Commissioner Elmer F. Andrews announced yesterday that 106 plans for factory buildings to cost $1,069.435 were filed last month in this State outside of New York City.
Brit Cabinet reptd planning aid to USSR war industries; Amb Maisky and wife unveil 1st tank, Stalin; illus
Logic, fairness and appreciation of the growing importance of women in war industry support the equal pay order issued by the War Labor Board last week. With the number of women war workers constantly increasing and likely to reach one-third or more of the total employes in many plants, inequality in pay is bound to cause trouble -- as, indeed, it has already done.
VIENNA, Feb. 10. -- There was some rioting tonight in the factory suburb of Floridsdorf as radical anti-government demonstrations began in connection with the anniversary Tuesday of last year's Socialist civil war.
The factory fire in Williamsburg Saturday afternoon, in which thirteen lives were probably sacrificed, would surely have been less destructive if the law requiring fireproofing of the stairways and the walls and ceilings of the exits had been enforced. The State Labor Department had served an order on the owners of the building directing them to obey this law, but the order was not obeyed.
BARCELONA, Dec. 11. -- More bomb explosions and the killing of a factory watchman marked the anarchists' attempt today to support their revolt by a general strike. They succeeded in c sing many textile factories by bombing factories and otherwise threatening workers.
The phrase which JAMES RESSELL LOWELL applied to Harvard in amiable jest has of late become too true to be amusing--or so, at least, Professor GRANT SHOWERMAN very amusingly
Plans have been filed for the erection of a four-story factory building, on plot 204 by 198, on Avenue A, between Seventy-first and Seventy-second Streets, for the P. Lorillard Company, to cost $500,000.
A new factory has recently been opened in Venice, Italy, employing about 150 workers with an average daily production of 400 to 500 pairs of shoes, according to a report by Vice Consul John W. Henderson.
Industrial troubles in Italy have for some time been taking the form of setting up "Consigli di fabbrica" in various places, chiefly among metal workers. Such bodies, provided they ...
"Russia, today, the Land Nobody Knows," is the beguiling title of a film at the Fifth Avenue Playhouse this week. This series of scenes in various sections of the Soviet Republic was produced by the American Student Delegation on their visit to Russia last Summer. It was actually filmed by Benjamin Leader, Secretary of the Ship News Reporters' Association, and Hillman Bishop, who headed the delegation.This picture is not as informative as one would gather from its title. There are views of the populace in different towns and also flashes of factories and people working in the wheat fields. In some cases the Russians appears to be laboring in a primitive fashion while in others they have adopted labor-saving devices. One episode is devoted to the anger caused by Britain severing diplomatic relations with the Soviet, and a caption calls attention to the "seething excitement" in a certain community; it is not especially seething.There were a few persons in the audience yesterday afternoon who could not resist applauding. In fact, one man clapped when he beheld a potato-peeling machine, and he was most enthustiastic when he saw a glimpse of a small boat and the making of a boiler.It is set forth in the text that the most impressive sight that met the eyes of the students was a funeral in Moscow, which is depicted on the screen.This feature is prefaced by a short subject entitled "When Lenine Died," which is quite interesting. To balance this offering there is Ernst Lubitsch's excellent old film. "Forbidden Paradise," the theme of which was, incidentally, inspired by Catherine of Russia."Russia, today, the Land Nobody Knows," is the beguiling title of a film at the Fifth Avenue Playhouse this week. This series of scenes in various sections of the Soviet Republic was produced by the American Student Delegation on their visit to Russia last Summer. It was actually filmed by Benjamin Leader, Secretary of the Ship News Reporters' Association, and Hillman Bishop, who headed the delegation.This picture is not as informative as one would gather from its title. There are views of the populace in different towns and also flashes of factories and people working in the wheat fields. In some cases the Russians appears to be laboring in a primitive fashion while in others they have adopted labor-saving devices. One episode is devoted to the anger caused by Britain severing diplomatic relations with the Soviet, and a caption calls attention to the "seething excitement" in a certain community; it is not especially seething.There were a few persons in the audience yesterday afternoon who could not resist applauding. In fact, one man clapped when he beheld a potato-peeling machine, and he was most enthustiastic when he saw a glimpse of a small boat and the making of a boiler.It is set forth in the text that the most impressive sight that met the eyes of the students was a funeral in Moscow, which is depicted on the screen.This feature is prefaced by a short subject entitled "When Lenine Died," which is quite interesting. To balance this offering there is Ernst Lubitsch's excellent old film. "Forbidden Paradise," the theme of which was, incidentally, inspired by Catherine of Russia.
A three-story factory building with ground floor stores at 148 Lee Avenue, in the Williamsburg section, has been resold by George Gauzle, as broker, to a client. Within the period of a few days the parcel has been resold three times, the final purchaser being the original owner.
Huge quantities of oil must be imported by France and Germany from America and the Far East to supply a demand which cannot be met by the petroleum fields of Southeastern Europe. Chemists in France and Germany are striving to produce synthetic petroleum derivatives in factories.
A complete clothing factory in Baltimore has been bought by the Jewish Joint Distribution Committee for dismantling and shipment overseas to enable survivors of concentration camps to make their own clothing, it was announced yesterday.
THE battle of the speeds was the big news of 1949 in the  record field. As 1950 begins, it goes on. The record makers have been willing to leave it to the customer to fret his head over three-way changers or extra appliances to make the home apparatus usable in all three speeds.
Of the "class war" now waged by the Soviet Government in the villages, for the double purpose of suppressing hostile peasant elements and building up collective farms or "grain factories," Mr. DURANTY observes ...
The two-story factory building with offices on plot 75 by 100 feet at 236 East 138th Street, near Rider Avenue, the Bronx, was sold by the Gerosa-Paladino Holding Corporation to the Peller Corporation for investment. Friedman, Marx  Handler were the attorneys for the seller and Barry  Katzman for the buyer, who paid cash over a purchase money mortgage of $30,000.
WASHINGTON, Nov. 14 (U.P.)-- The decline in industrial employment leveled off in October wtih 450,000 workers displaced during the month in comparison with a 1,700,000 figure in September, the Bureau of Labor Statistics reported tonight.
With its 2,250 factories all going full blast or making extensive preparations for the expected after war activity, the Bronx now faces a demand for buildings for manufacturing purposes which, if it could be supplied at once, would probably more than double the output of manufacturing in this borough within the next year.
A large Brooklyn industrial property passed to new control with the sale of eight buildings ranging from six to ten stories in the entire square block bounded by Jay, Pearl, Water and Front Streets by Vincent and Mary Coraci to Albert H. Graham, operator.
The two factory properties at 2107-09 Borden Avenue, Long Island City, will be sold at auction Tuesday afternoon in the Hotel Commodore by Fred Berger  Co., on behalf of the American Druggists Syndicate.
The Advisory Council of Real Estate Interests is supporting the proposed amendment to the labor land with regard to the definition of a factory, as prepared by the Building Managers' Association. Many hardships are now imposed ...
Roman-Callman Company have sold to the Rocco Realty Corporation (a holding corporation for Ridley's, the candy manufacturer), a plot of 22,750 square feet at the northwest corner of Queens Boulevard and Moore Street, Long Island City, having a frontage of 100 ...
The Delphine Realty Corporation, of which Joseph Delfino is president, bought the one-story building at 297-309 North Seventh Street, Brooklyn, from Celia Joroff in a transaction in which a purchase money mortgage of $8,000 was executed at the closing. Peter Norrito was the broker. Title was insured by the City Title Insurance Company.
CORNING, N.Y., March 25. -- Long before daybreak today workmen flitted silently through the dimly lighted factory of the Corning Glass Works finishing the preparations which began two years ago for the pouring of glass for the reflector of the world's largest telescope.
The North American Scientific Laboratories has leased the twostory building at 42-17 Twentyseventh Street, Long Island City, Queens, for a long term of years through the Roman-Caswell Company, broker. The lessee will use the building for offices, preparations of biological specimens and as a clinical laboratory to serve educational institutions.
The Allen B. Dumont Laboratories, Inc., in an expansion move, purchased the plant facility on Shafto Street at Scholes Avenue in Clifton, N.J., from William R. Warner  Co. The Joseph J. Garibaldi Organization was the broker.
The Barber-Robinson plant at 34 State Street, Ossining, N.Y., has been purchased by the Donville Realty Corporation, which plans to use it for textile manufacturing. This property, containing a building with approximately 40,000 square feet, was acquired from the 34 State Street Corporation, represented by Edward J. Egan, attorney.
The State Factory Investigating Commission, whose report is published this morning, deals thoroughly with the question of fire hazards in "converted" tenements used as factories, in loft buildings, and in factory buildings which have been subjected to fireproofing processes in varying degrees, or not at all.
G Vazquez, chief of Labor Dept, Mexico, supports Internatl Labor Office convention for factory accident prevention
The heads of four manufacturing companies in the "white goods" industry of this city have bargained with the Board of Education for a public school for factory girls, which will teach them to become more efficient. The course of study, which at first will be elementary, will be at the expense of the employers.
The four-story garage building at 794 Union Street, Brooklyn, was sold by Angelina Saccente to the Ice Air Conditioning Company, Inc., which will convert the property ...
The Refrigeration Corporation of America, a wholly owned subsidiary of Noma Electric Corporation, has purchased from Allen Industries of Detroit, Mich., the factory ...
The candy factory being erected in Queens for Ridley's will be a four-story steel and concrete building located at the northeast corner of Queens Boulevard and Moore Street.
The Judwill Realty Corporation acquired the two-story factory structure at 19-27 Clay Street, Brooklyn, from 19 Clay Street, Inc. The property, which occupies an irregular plot 75 by 105 feet, is assessed at $35,000. Title was insured by the Lawyers Title Corporation.
Ground will be broken today for a new industrial center on a site of more than twenty-two acres south of the intersection of Routes 4 and 17 in Paramus, N.J., acquired by Emil Buehler from the Charles Smith estate through Harold Nixon, Inc.
SCRANTON, Pa., Oct. 21.--Seven hundred men, boys and girls employed in the Olyphant factory of the Dery silk will went on strike today when Superintendent Thomas Flynn announced a 5 per cent. cut in wages of all employes earning in excess of $21 a week.
The Elite Textile Printing Company has purchased the five-story factory building at 830 Monroe Street, Hoboken, N.J., from the Ninth Street Monroe Corporation and will use it for the printing of designs on silk and rayon ties. The C.B. Snyder Realty Company was the broker.
The Pulmosan Safety Equipment Corporation has purchased the three-story factory building at 642-46 Pacific Street, Brooklyn, from Edith Weisman and Gloria Linn for cash above a purhase money mortgage of $36,500. The property, on a plot 75 by 110 feet, is assessed at $73,000.
WASHINGTON, Feb. 23 -- Gross weekly earnings of factory production workers averaged lower in mid-January as a result of a lower average work week, the Bureau of Labor Statistics reported today.
U S Shoe Co buys Menihan Shoe Co's plant at Buffalo and will operate it as branch plant under name of Val Duttenhofer & Sons, Inc
The San Holding Corporation sold the factory building at 1360 Garrison Avenue, the Bronx, assessed at $37,000, to Graman Estates, Inc. A purchase money mortgage of $42,500 was executed at the closing. The City Title Insurance Company insured the title.
The six-story factory at 561 Grand Avenue, southeast corner of Dean Street, Brooklyn, has been sold by the Dean Realty Corporation to the 561 Grand Avenue Corporation. The property, containing 80,000 square feet of space, is occupied by tenants in various manufacturing lines and is assessed at $200,000.
WASHINGTON, Sept. 29 (AP) -- Manufacturers sales during August recovered from a July dip by rising $1,500,00,000 to a total volume of $17,900,000,000, equaling the figure for last June.
WASHINGTON, June 30 -- The May sales of manufacturers as compared with April declined $650,000,000 to an aggregate of $16,500,000,000 and inventory book values at the end of the month reached $29,500,000,000, the Department of Commerce announced today.
BRIDGEPORT, Conn., July 3. -- A building on Steeplechase Island, used as a factory for making fireworks, was blown to pieces to-night by the explosion of the materials used in their manuuacture There was no one in the building at the time of the explosion.
PHILADELPHIA, Jan. 19. -- That actual knowledge might be obtained of the conditions in the factories two graduates of Bryn Mawr College, prominent in social circles of this city, Miss Fanny T. Cochran and Miss Florence L. Sanville, found employment in silk mills of the anthracite region of Pennsylvania.
The Electric Fly Screen Company has purchased the property at 430 Hoffman Avenue in Lindenhurst, L.I., from the Boontone Polish Company and will use it for the manufacture of electric fly screens and similar electric insect-killing equipment. Tom Abbott of Merrick was the broker in the transaction.
VERO BEACH, Fla., March 9 -- The baseball factory known as Dodgertown has to be seen to be believed. And even then you can't believe it. It's assembly line baseball at its fantastic best. Just the other day Jocko Conlan, the umpire, got a glimpse of it for the first time and gasped. "A circus, ain't it?" he chortled.
DETROIT, April 19 -- Workers at the Lincoln plant of the Ford Motor Company voted today 484 to 15 to strike. The vote was taken by Local 900, United Automobile Workers, CIO.
Steinway & Sons and Sohmer Co factories shut down following strike called by Internatl Piano, Organ & Instrument Workers' Union
For industry the outlook is approximately this: In American enterprises ranging from small machine shops to the United States Steel Company peace meant that wartime business routines had to be scrapped. In a single move ten days ago WPB had swept away 210...
The Ocean Kimball Garage, Inc., has sold the one-story manufacturing building occupied by the Atkins Wood Products Company and the three-family dwelling at 103-12 to 103-18 101st Street, Ozone Park, Queens, to the Ansali Realty Corporation, represented by Eugene E. Lefkowitz, attorney.
Wilmer N. Tuttle sold at New Brunswick, the plan of the New Brunswick Chemical Company, adjacent to the E. R. Squibbs Laboratories, to the Dye Aniline Company; also the former Alpha Chemical Company's plant at Bound Brook, to a client, who will improve and enlarge the buildings into a high-class manufacturing plant for their own use.
The Maytag Company is preparing to erect a $5,000,000 plant in central Iowa for production of a new automatic electric washer, Fred Maytag 2d, president, disclosed in an interview in the Pennsylvania Hotel yesterday. He said the company has options on several sites but favors one close to Newton, Iowa, where its present washer is made.
The statisticians of Congress inform us that 13,711 bills were introduced in the session just adjourned, and that one in thirteen was enacted.
US Army A pennants for wartime production and cfts presented to French Production Ministry for distribution to 70 mfg firms
The law relating to the work of women has been declared by the Supreme Court, the Appellate Division, to be partly constitutional and partly unconstitutional. It is sustained as to the provisions relating to ten hours work per day and sixty hours per week, but it is not sustained as to the prohibition of the employment of women after a specified time, 9 o'clock.
The law passed by the Legislature last May will go into effect to-morrow, requiring fireproof exits from existing factory buildings. There are 46,000 factories in the State affected by the law, which commands that those of over four stories shall have at least one exit leading to an in-closed fireproof stairway.
A four-alarm fire of undetermined origin was sweeping through a four-story factory building at 125-27 East 129th Street, occupied by the Modern Cabinet Corporation, at 2 A.M. today. Firemen said the blaze appeared to be under control.
Maj Gen Chiang threatens to seize factories planning to shut down because of econ decrees including price freeze, Shanghai
Chinese Govt plans use of U S Export-Import Bank funds for Stewart truck factory purchase, Buffalo, N Y
Students authorized by trade unions to work in factories, as an aid toward meeting their univ expenses
The factory of the American Manufacturing Company, dealers in umbrella materials, running through from Fifty-ninth to Sixtieth Street, just west of Amsterdam Avenue, was transferred yesterday by that corporation to the National Umbrella Frame Cdmpany, for a consideration of $250,000.
R H McCoy, awaiting release from prison, to build plant to mfr gadgets he invented during 25-yr term; ex-warden is partner
The newly constructed one-story factory building at 31-09 Thirty-fifth Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, has been sold by Charles J. Mandia to the Johnke Manufacturing Company of New York City, manufacturer of custom-built photographic equipment.
Allen Industries, Inc., of Detroit, Mich., has purchased the plant of the American Encaustic Tiling Company at Barber Station, Perth Amboy, N.J. Allen Industries ...
A model fireproof factory that is deserving of more than passing notice is nearing completion at Seventy-ninth Street and East End Avenue. The building, with land, represents an investment of about $450,000. It has been put up by the Stevenson Construction Company and will be ready for leasing within a few weeks.
Thermionic, Inc., of which Victor O. Allen is president, has purchased the Park Instrument Company's plant at 76 Interhaven Avenue, North Plainfield, N.J. J. I. Kislak, Inc., was the broker. The buying concern manufactures filaments for radio and television tubes.
An important additton to the industrial expansion and general business improvement of the westerly Forty-second Street section has recently been made in the completion of the seven-story building in Forty-third Street, just east of Eleventh Avenue, by the firm of Park  Tilford for use as its candy factory.
Penna Sugar Refining Co starts production at Shackamaxon St refinery built 10 yrs ago by Segal
FIVE million cubio feet of workFing space has been added to the Boeing Aircraft Company's plant in Seattle, Wash., to make room for construction and assembly of its four-engined bombers, land planes and transocean transports.
18 factories in Roubaix and Tourcoing closed by strikes among cos supplying coal; textile workers driven from factories with fire hoses in hands of patrons
ed on strike suggests factories be moved from 5th Av to lower rental dists and money saved can be issued for workers
Sued by Col J Hultkrantz and Capt W Gyllencreutz for comm; sales to Loyalist Spain revealed
An instructive series of figures illustrative of the number of employes in the wholesale and retail trades on April 20 of this year, within the Fifth Avenue zone, has just been compiled by the Fifth Avenue Association and sent to the Commission on Building Districts and Restrictions. The statistics show very clearly the present extent of the manufacturing trades in the Fifth Avenue section and also the status of the retail business.
The deputy factory inspectors are still at work inspecting the factories in this city, and they are not yet ready with their report. In regard to the evils of the sweating system in this city and Brooklyn, Deputy Inspector Franey said yesterday that the inspectors have no power to remedy them.
Police Commissioner BINGHAM, addressing 400 members of the Police Lieutenants' Association and their friends on the evening of Feb. 27, made this remarkable statement, or implied accusation:
During 1918, 240 new glass factories, employing 3,236 people, came into existence in Japan, according to the Japan Weekly Chronicle. The industry has made great progress since the beginning of the war, the value of the output increasing, from approximately 7,000,000 yen to 27,360,000 yen in 1917, and to 41,924,000 yen in 1918.
ALBANY, July 18.--Emma Degroat, a young woman, was killed in John Stevens's shirt factory this afternoon.
citizens of Kingsland and Lyndhurst meet and discuss plans for mass meeting to oppose rebuilding of plant
The industrial bureau of the Bronx Board of Trade is busily engaged in making an industrial survey of the borough, also in the preliminary work incident to the construction of the proposed belt line.
Paterson, N J, mill workers hit; industry seeks more rayon to keep mills open; many plants prepare to switch to rayon; Unemployment Ins Comm repts on laid-off workers claims; final warp being set on Paterson loom illus
SYRACUSE, N.Y. -- The value of the modern factory is being demonstrated here by the Monarch Typewriter Co. The building and all its appliances are in advance of anything hitherto seen. Its position, with reference to the points of compass for light and air, was taken into account by the typewriter people, and the most modern sanitary appliances were installed.
John Dey and his wife were in Smith's leather factory on Bloomfield-avenue on the outskirts of Newark at 11 o'clock last night, when a crowd of ...
THOSE oxygen parties they are giving in Chicago and New York may be new things in those slow-going bergs," said the man from Kansas scornfully, "but out in our town old Doc Brainard was wise to the game four years ago. He made good at it, too, until the fire insurance companies and the Prohibitionists combined and drove him out of town.
comm hearing; investigators rept complete negligence of measures for prevention or for escape in event of fire in most factories
To the Editor of The New York Times: Mr. Robert Hoe, in defending the action of his employes in front of the Hoe factory yesterday afternoon at the time of the funeral procession, volunteers the statement that his employes were not to blame, and that only a piece of cotton waste was thrown from the factory windows, which, he claims, caused the riot.
ALBANY, May 11.--There was a decrease of 2 per cent. in the number of factory workers in New York State in April, as compared with March, chiefly because of the seasonal slackening of production in several industries.
In spite of unemployment situation, Wembly Suflex Rubber Co is forced to close for lack of labor
CHICAGO, June 3 -- Problems of labor and health are confronting Central Westerners, while farmers in their midst are voicing complaints over Federal regulations.
Brockton Shoe Mfrs' Assn asks local unions of Boot and Shoe Workers' Union to accept 10% reduction
Whittall Mills makes 10% cut; Mass Bd of Conciliation and Arbitration announces 20% cut in Lynn shoe factories
Two sales of industrial properties, one in Newark and the other in Irvington, have just been closed through the realty office of David Cronheim of Newark. The Newark deal involved the two structures at 126 First Street, on a plot 50 by 127 feet, sold for Katherine McKeon to Max Bernstein of Newark
A Keating wants legis to urge US corps to 'lease-for-profit' capital 'used-but-good' goods as practical approach to plan; says ECA has been informed of plan
G H Fox sees trend to lower sales tax payments; operator acctg service unveiled, Natl Automatic Mdsg Assn conv
L D MacDonald charges Treas Dept depreciation policies, Internal Revenue Code Sec 102 and divds tax hamper equity capital flow
other indus retooling spurs sales; mfrs see '49-50 vol below '48; Govt orders cited as unknown factor
Threadwell Tap & Die drops chain discount pricing; hailed as start of gen indus move to drop system
A J Fitzgerald and 3 left-wing backers to be tried by Lynn, Mass, Local 201 for refusing to carry out local's mandate in conv elections
Carey repts locals are repudiating left-wing delegates to conv who failed to follow local union orders to support right-wing slate; cites Lynn, Mass, local suspension of Fitzgerald and planned action against 4 delegates; Carey analyzes conv votes; dist pres P E Seymour calls Lynn action unconst
A W Holmberg repts natl indus upturn but NYC business still spotty; Govt 'phantom orders' have little effect
Mayor O'Dwyer calls for strike end; asks co and union reprs to meet with 3-man com
Natl Machine Tool Bldrs and Amer Machine Tool Distributors Assns sponsor joint sales training courses at 4 colls
Explains its anti-recession program, which cuts wages in slump and pays bonus if profits are made, lr to customers
The intelligence, zeal, enthusiasm and noble devotion to non-partisanship of the Republican machines in the five boroughs were rewarded with so splendid a success that deep-revolv  ing statesmen are planning to unite and co-ordinate the five parts into one majestic whole.
In the New York cloak and suit industry it has just been settled by agreement that employers who make use of electrically operated pressing machines shall pay $8 weekly for every machine into a fund for the relief of unemployed pressers. This reads very like the ancient law of deodand by which any inanimate object which has been accidentally the cause of a man's death is forfeited to the crown for pious uses.
Tennessee Democrats struck a deadly blow at what is known as the Lea-Horton machine in the nomination for Governor of State Treasurer MCALISTER of Nashville. For months the State's troubles, growing out of the collapse of banks and other enterprises controlled by former Senator LUKE LEA and ROGERS CALDWELL, allies of Governor HORTON, have been spread on the public records.
For two years the Government of Japan has been making ruthless war on China in complete disregard of a treaty to which this country is a party--a treaty pledging Japan "to respect the ...
Mr. CHARLES D. HILLES and his company of New York sages and augurs have again shown, on a larger scale, that deep-revolving political skill, that genius for man-...
WPB discloses Roosevelt victory output plan requires tool output doubling 1942; tools interchange to be widened; Brit ship used tools to U S
Gratifying as the success of Mr. GIFFORD PINCHOT in the Pennsylvania Republican primaries is to all the friends of generous political aspirations and of good government the believers in the saving virtue of the direct primary seem inclined to make too much of this illustration of its value.
There is something mysterious about the Johnson boom. From the beginning its support has been mixed, consisting of pacifists, pro-Germans and radicals.
B F Goodrich Co repts it has developed reclaiming device to save 17,000 tons annually; illus
For a generation or more powerful city political machines have played an important part in our national affairs.
MUNCIE, Ind., March 19 (AP) -- In 1886 the Ball brothers first considered moving their factory to the Middle West, where natural gas would provide cheaper fuel. Frank Ball came here and made the negotiations preliminary to moving the plant.
In the complex life of New York there are many families and many individuals whose course, threading fairly clear through the maze, may be suddenly and disastrously tangled by an unpredictable slip in the machinery.
Lord KELVIN invented a machine which has made the prediction of the tides for any place on the earth easier than playing the piano acceptably.
AIDED and abetted by an awesome olio of revenants,  spooks and spectral quipsters. Bob Hope has come up with another book. Already capsuled in a national picture magazine, its ...
There is somber reading in the National Industrial Conference Board's index figures for last month's production in the basic industries, as compared with the July average for the years 1925-29. Automobile output down to 55 per cent, iron and steel to 45 per cent, copper ...
To the Editor of The New York Times: I have just read in Topics of The Times "Glut Without Machines," wherein you try to prove that we can have an overproduction of wheat without machinery, and you go on to show that the average yield per acre now is about the same as it was twenty-five years ago.
With the arrival from Russia of "Men and Jobs" ("Dela I Lyudi") at the Cameo, American film patrons have an excellent opportunity to see how Soviet enthusiasm, combined with American technical ability and tools, finished the gigantic Dnieprostoy dam two months ahead of schedule and made it the outstanding success of the famous Five-Year Plan. They also have a chance to witness a "glorification" of the machine, in the shape of a steam-driven crane. There is some first-rate acting by N. Okhlopkof, as leader of the "shock brigade" of cement pourers; V. Stanitsyn, as the American engineer who shows the green Russian workers how it ought to be done, and S. Polyakof, as the worker who becomes an "Americanized" crane operator.This picture, which graphically depicts the industrialization of the Russian proletariat and no doubt is of great educational and propaganda value at home, is well photographed and directed and the sound reproduction is good. Unfortunately, however, the speeding-up process by which the Russian "shock brigade" finally overtakes and surpasses the record set by the gang headed by the American specialist is indicated mainly by diagrams instead of by actual scenes. A mild romance between a rather attractive girl interpreter and the Russian instructing engineer does not interfere with the main action. There is more humor in "Men and Jobs" than is usual in Soviet productions. As the American engineer speaks English throughout and there are plenty of captions in that language, no knowledge of Russian is needed for enjoyment of the picture.MUSIC NOTES.Sir Hamilton Harty, conductor of the London Symphony Orchestra and the Halle Orchestra of Manchester, England, is expected to arrive today on the Mauretania. He will conduct two pairs of concerts with the Cleveland Orchestra this week and the week following in Cleveland, Ohio. He conducted in San Francisco and at the Hollywood Bowl in Los Angeles during the Summers of 1931 and 1932.Guido Napoli has announced his resignation from the New York Opera Guild.With the arrival from Russia of "Men and Jobs" ("Dela I Lyudi") at the Cameo, American film patrons have an excellent opportunity to see how Soviet enthusiasm, combined with American technical ability and tools, finished the gigantic Dnieprostoy dam two months ahead of schedule and made it the outstanding success of the famous Five-Year Plan. They also have a chance to witness a "glorification" of the machine, in the shape of a steam-driven crane. There is some first-rate acting by N. Okhlopkof, as leader of the "shock brigade" of cement pourers; V. Stanitsyn, as the American engineer who shows the green Russian workers how it ought to be done, and S. Polyakof, as the worker who becomes an "Americanized" crane operator.This picture, which graphically depicts the industrialization of the Russian proletariat and no doubt is of great educational and propaganda value at home, is well photographed and directed and the sound reproduction is good. Unfortunately, however, the speeding-up process by which the Russian "shock brigade" finally overtakes and surpasses the record set by the gang headed by the American specialist is indicated mainly by diagrams instead of by actual scenes. A mild romance between a rather attractive girl interpreter and the Russian instructing engineer does not interfere with the main action. There is more humor in "Men and Jobs" than is usual in Soviet productions. As the American engineer speaks English throughout and there are plenty of captions in that language, no knowledge of Russian is needed for enjoyment of the picture.MUSIC NOTES.Sir Hamilton Harty, conductor of the London Symphony Orchestra and the Halle Orchestra of Manchester, England, is expected to arrive today on the Mauretania. He will conduct two pairs of concerts with the Cleveland Orchestra this week and the week following in Cleveland, Ohio. He conducted in San Francisco and at the Hollywood Bowl in Los Angeles during the Summers of 1931 and 1932.Guido Napoli has announced his resignation from the New York Opera Guild.
A volume entitled "Man a Machine" contains a reprint of the Leyden edition of 1748 of Julien Offray de la Mettrie's "L'Homme Machine," an English translation of that work by Miss Gertrude C. Bussey and others; a few extracts from La Mattrie's "The Natural History of the Soul;" Frederick the Great's eulogy on La Mettrie, and some useful philosophical and historical notes prepared by Miss Bussey.
Photons, the Principle of Uncertainty, atoms composed of ghostly probabilities, space that is curved, electrons that are now particles and now waves -- what do they mean in our lives? Three good meals a day, a pleasant home, interesting work, a weekly visit to the motion-picture theatre -- these are the realities of life.
CAMBRIDGE, Mass., July 22. -- A new machine to boss another machine has been developed in the electrical engineering research laboratory of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
GIFFORD PINCHOT has won a memorable victory against the Republican cligarchies, the survivors and wouldbe successors of Mr. PENROSE'S Pennsylvania machine.
Sales and merchandising problems of machine tool dealers will be discussed tomorrow and Tuesday at the annual convention of the Associated Machine Tool Dealers of America in the Hotel Alms, Cincinnati.
New soil aerating machine to improve turf growth on golf courses demonstrated, NJ Assn of Golf Course Supts meeting
Election of Malcolm Monroe and D. D. Richardson as vice presidents of the Monroe Calculating Machine Company of Orange, N. J., were announced yesterday. George A. Staniar was elevated to treasurer and Fred R. Sullivan, to controller.
To the Editor of The New York Times: From various newspaper reviews, letters, conversations and questions asked of me when speaking on music and musicians in the Soviet Union, I gather that the impression is prevalent that the authorities inspire, and the Russian people rejoice in, music which represents and idealizes the noises of factories, locomotives, tractors and so on.
Thomas J. Watson, president of the International Business Machines Corporation, announced on his departure for Europe last week that he had given orders for the erection of a new machine shop, three stories high, on a plot 160 by 450 feet, adjoining the firm's plant at Endicott, near Binghamton, N. Y. ?he new structure will cost $750,?00.
The Republican machine is against HUGHES in New York, just as the Senatorial machine is against TAFT in Ohio. Prophets are accustomed to receive scant honor in their own country. The Hughes resolution which Senator SAXE could not get passed by the Republican County Committee will go through in January, it is said but that is hope deferred, the thing on which fond hearts sicken.
Company D of the Sixty-fifth Infantry, stationed in Puerto Rico., was designated today 1937 winner of the Edwin Howard -Clark Trophy for the army machine gun unit making the highest average score in tests which include elementary training, marksmanship, marching and making of camp. Its score was 942.2.
HOLLYWOOD. CONTRIBUTING to the cheerier aspects of the picture business, Central Casting -- the bureau that employs all the extras used in Hollywood -- has installed a machine which reduces the hopes, the achievements and the personalities of the cinema's would-be's to the cold impersonality of a multi-punched card.
IT is of vital importance to remember that machines, however  excellent, are only machines, and that the human being who copies them or endeavors to imitate them in any guise is preparing ...
AN ADVANCE SOLOMONS BASE, March 29 (Delayed) (AP) -- Liberator bombers gave Truk its "best bombing" today, but in doing so encountered far stronger Zero opposition "than over Rabaul on its worst day."
There is on the statute book of this State a group of enactments regulating primary elections and intended to make sure that the will of the majority of active members of any party shall prevail in the action of that party. The laws are the result of much careful study, and have stood the sharp test of experience as far as they go.
AN imposing array of machines and materials which illustrate the development of our industrial era and go far in explaining the mechanical age is now being shown at the Ford Exposition of Progress in the newly decorated Commerce Hall of the huge Port Authority Building at Eighth Avenue and Fifteenth Street.
The rivalry of the American and British aviators in Newfoundland recalls a dawn at Calais less than ten years ago, (July 5, 1909,) when a Frenchman, LOUIS BLERIOT, astonished the world by flying the English Channel in a frail monoplane that cost only $2,000 to build.
The New York Curb Exchange announces that 100,000 shares of common stock of the Landis Machine Company, of $25 par value a share, have been admitted to unlisted trading privileges. The stock is listed  on the St. Louis Stock Exchange.
Causes arrest of M Newman in Jersey City, charging that Newman tried to sell him money-making machine
WASHINGTON, Nov. 30. -- Thoroughly aroused over recent slayings of Federal agents by outlaws, investigators for the Senate Munitions Committee today decided to question arms makers here next week on how public enemies obtain their deadly weapons.
New records were set for attendance at the thirty-third annual Knitting Arts Exhibition which closed at the Commercial Museum tonight, according to Albert C. Rau, managing director. Orders booked by machinery and accessories exhibitors during the week were the best since 1930, he said.
Armed attack on Ministry of War described in conflicting repts as Communist assault and Rightist movement against Govt
Installed in dept stores on nation-wide scale by Consol Automatic Merchandising Corp for sale of cigarettes
THE Macmillan Company is bringing out a volume on "Machine Construction and Drawing," by Frank Castle, M.I.M.E., of the Royal College of Science, South Kensington, England, and the London Morley College. The author writes from a long experience of teaching the subject.
To the Editor of The New York Times: Is not Mr. Elwell's letter of Sept. 12 touching on "Individuality in Art" at the present moment just a little over-anxious?
THE recent decisions of the Columbia and RCA Victor recording companies to go their separate ways in disk design and turntable speed have put the other people who manufacture phonographs on the spot. The following is intended to give a general idea of what you may find if you look for a new machine able to play all the different types.
The index of machine tool orders again recorded an increase in July, rising to 89.6 from 70.2 in June, according to figures issued today by the National Machine Tool Builders Association. The index for July, 1937, stood at 170.1.
With the arrival of "Pozor" ("Shame"), a Russian dialogue film with English titles, at the Cameo, Americans receive a chance to see a remarkably well made picture and to learn that the word "shame" in the Soviet Union has little to do with sex, but is used freely to hold incompetent or unwilling workers up to the scorn of their fellows. Furthermore, the Russian directors have managed to put a deal of romance into the rather technical subject of how best to turn out the huge steam-electric turbines so much in demand over there.The main theme of the picture is devoted to efforts of Pavel (D. Abrikosof), Lazaref (M. Kozlovsky), engineers; Vasya (Boris Tenin), secretary of the Communist shop group, and Tchutkotchkin (G. Gudkin), a student engineer, to improve the functioning of the plant, despite stealthy acts of sabotage by Engineer Skortsof (B. Poslavsky), a hold-over from the old rgime who occupies an important position. The student finally discovers the failure of some of the key machinery to work properly to be due to Engineer Skortsof's "carlessness" in allowing a mistake of three-hundreths of a millimeter to be made in changing the British blue-prints from inches to the metric system.But before the satisfactory ending is reached and the big, new turbine proves its worth, there are all sorts of complications, involving the wrongful branding with "shame" of Babtchenko (Vladimir Gardin), an old-time skilled mechanic, who has a fondness for books and is scornful of the new shop ways. The acting of Gardin and his general appearance remind one of Emil Jannings. His excellent work is one of the high spots of the picture. The other members of the cast also are first-class performers. The limited mass scenes are effective, especially where the workers with bated breath watch while the new turbine is being tried out.A slight concession is made to the love interest by having the personable Katya (Tamara Guretskaya) temporarily separated from Pavel, her young husband, through disagreements over the turbine puzzle, but happily reunited with him at the end, somewhat to the disappointment of Vasya. The photography and the sound reproduction are excellent.With the arrival of "Pozor" ("Shame"), a Russian dialogue film with English titles, at the Cameo, Americans receive a chance to see a remarkably well made picture and to learn that the word "shame" in the Soviet Union has little to do with sex, but is used freely to hold incompetent or unwilling workers up to the scorn of their fellows. Furthermore, the Russian directors have managed to put a deal of romance into the rather technical subject of how best to turn out the huge steam-electric turbines so much in demand over there.The main theme of the picture is devoted to efforts of Pavel (D. Abrikosof), Lazaref (M. Kozlovsky), engineers; Vasya (Boris Tenin), secretary of the Communist shop group, and Tchutkotchkin (G. Gudkin), a student engineer, to improve the functioning of the plant, despite stealthy acts of sabotage by Engineer Skortsof (B. Poslavsky), a hold-over from the old rgime who occupies an important position. The student finally discovers the failure of some of the key machinery to work properly to be due to Engineer Skortsof's "carlessness" in allowing a mistake of three-hundreths of a millimeter to be made in changing the British blue-prints from inches to the metric system.But before the satisfactory ending is reached and the big, new turbine proves its worth, there are all sorts of complications, involving the wrongful branding with "shame" of Babtchenko (Vladimir Gardin), an old-time skilled mechanic, who has a fondness for books and is scornful of the new shop ways. The acting of Gardin and his general appearance remind one of Emil Jannings. His excellent work is one of the high spots of the picture. The other members of the cast also are first-class performers. The limited mass scenes are effective, especially where the workers with bated breath watch while the new turbine is being tried out.A slight concession is made to the love interest by having the personable Katya (Tamara Guretskaya) temporarily separated from Pavel, her young husband, through disagreements over the turbine puzzle, but happily reunited with him at the end, somewhat to the disappointment of Vasya. The photography and the sound reproduction are excellent.
Directors of the Burroughs Adding Machine Company have declared a stock dividend of 25 per cent., according to advices from Detroit. The dividend is payable Aug. 15 to stockholders of record July 31.
The index of machine tool orders for January declined to 118.4, compared with 142.7 for the preceding month, the National Machine Tool Builders' Association announced here today. The figure compares with 200.3 for January, 1937. The index is based on 1926 shipments as 100.
US RESEARCH: Dr P M Morse outlines plans for bldg protonsynchroton at Brookhaven Natl Lab; scientists at Princeton, NJ, conf approve plans
Amerlean sales of machine tools to the United Kingdom in the first ten months of this year dropped to $10,214,400 from $14,678,400 in that period of 1937, according to the Deapartment of Commerce today.
Our uncrowned King, on his return to his adopted country, a few days ago, commenting upon the benefits of ring politics, as exemplified by our present city administration, attempted to impress upon the impressionable the necessity of machine rule, telling us, with somewhat brazen effrontery, that we must be governed like the girls of the department store or the employes of the manufactory.
NOW the fun will be in seeing how much money the New York racing public will roll  through the mutuel machines in the turf season just ahead. It will be plenty, even though it may not bring home the State tax return of $10,000,000 blithely estimated by Senator John J. Dunnigan when he set out to steer the bill through the Albany legislative machine.
The Republican machine's discovery that Gov. HUGHES is not at all strong with the people and cannot be renominated was remarkably sudden, and the evidence with which it supports that contention is surprising in its nature and variety. The most convincing proof of the Governor's unavailability is undoubtedly the testimony of Mr. FRANCIS HENDRICKS as to conditions in his home county.
MAN devoured by his machines, body, mind and soul,  and his civilization poisoned to its approaching death by their influences and their products-- that is the picture which R. Austin Freeman paints of what is now going on in this "Machine Age" as the...
The statement of General TRACY C. DICKSON of the Ordnance Department that not a single heavy Browning machine gun had been delivered by the Colt's Arms Company was not made until the General went before the House Military Affairs Committee to enlighten it about the need of an appropriation of billions for guns, no ...
NYC urged to tax coin-operated apt house washing machines by Independent Laundry Drivers of Greater NY
1 killed, 3 hurt, Warsaw, when struck by bullets from machine gun being tested at Govt factory
The principle of the synchrotron was discovered independently in 1945 by Dr. Veksler of Russia and Prof. Edwin M. McMillan of the University of California. A number of giant synchrotrons, accelerating electrons up to 300,000,000 electron volts, have been in full operation in the United States for more than a year.
Commissioner Wright of the National Bureau of Labor has had more experience in the collection and tabulation of statistics relative to industries than any man in this country. He does not find statistical data to establish a theory, but presents the statistics and leaves others to draw their conclusions.
MEMPHIS, Tenn., Dec. 28 (AP) -Betty Lou Marbury lost her right hand today, but her strong faith did not waver. The 10-year-old girl was described as "stoic and courageous" in the operating room.
B L Marbury, 10, of Tenn must lose right hand to stop bone tumor spread; thousands prayed to avert loss
RC Ch reversal on policy toward other Christian faiths seen in Franciscans plan to redesign Ch of Holy Sepulchre
Pope's plea to Jews to join in ch fight on atheism seen move to heal rift with Israel over shrines
ROME, Dec. 23 (AP) -- Following is the official English translation of the Pope's Christmas message today:
G I Jones blames tribal chiefs for Basutoland ritual murders; says they believe 'medicine' from human flesh will further their pol aims
Dr W Van Kirk presides, interfaith conf on policy, NYC; P J MacCormack scoffs at subversives infiltration; cites screening; conf backs liberal law
BANGKOK, Thailand, Dec. 11 (Reuters) -- A conference here representing 15,000,000 Protestants in East Asia declared today that the conflict between Christianity and communism was "fundamental."
attends mass at hosp; plans vacation at Ft Lauderdale, Fla, as guest of Dr E M Bernecker; yacht cruise planned
Bishop Corson sees US pub schools and other groups as retarding factors; urges broader scope of educ
LAKE SUCCESS, Nov. 25 -- Following are excerpts from the address delivered today by Dr. T. F. Tsiang of China before the Political and Security Committee of the United Nations General Assembly:
Amer Com on Christian Approach to Jews conf; Prof Morton and Rev H L Ellision score anti-Semitism as un-Christian
F Booth on his NY Times Oct 3 ad urging Pres Truman to invoke God to avert atomic war
Dr Sweeny urges soc studies at Christian insts in Far East; she and Dr Anderson rept on insts programs
UN Legal Com votes 1 min of silence for prayer at UN Assembly 1st and last sessions
conv; Bishop Sherrill s; House of Deputies refuses to seat 4 women; Very Rev C W Sprouse elected Deputies pres
Prof E L Sukenik holds tomb found 4 yrs ago, Jerusalem, is earliest record of Christianity; relics described
Bishop Wand and others arrive, US, from GB, for congresses on 400th anniv of Book of Common Prayer; int; illus
WATERTOWN, N. Y., Aug. 28 -- United States Senator John Foster Dulles, speaking here this morning from the pulpit of the First Presbyterian Church, which once was occupied by his father, the late Dr. Allen Macy Dulles, characterized reliance by the United States mainly on "material and military might," in the world struggle for peace, as "dangerous."
Yugoslav news agency repts 62 priests indicted for violating Govt decree; Polish agency repts W Gurgacz, priest, sentenced to die for anti-Govt activity; 4 other priests get jailed
Town Councilman-elect J M Stanford to take office after Fed Ct decision on invalidity of law on religious beliefs
S S Lane lr on interfaith youth program by B'nai B'rith lodge and Holy Name Soc of Immaculate Conception Ch, NYC
Rev E B Broderick explains ban on reading Communist pubs and decree, ser; Cardinal Spellman int
America (pub) modifies Rev R W Facey rev of book Gods' Underground; denies it was charging plagiarism from N S Timasheff book
W Ger voters urged by RC clergy to vote for candidates pledging safeguard; Christian Dems want state schools to give religion courses; Soc Dems opposed
400 mins and others see religious freedom periled by arrest of L Gara for advising conscientious objector against regis for mil draft
In your July 20 issue you carried an extremely interesting and provocative editorial entitled "Communist Shutout." It purported to be an analysis of Jackie Robinson's statement before the Un-American Activities Committee concerning the much-distorted Paris Peace Call Paul Robeson made to the Negro people.
Statistics published last Thursday showing the growth in church membership in America permit the inference that religion is not dying.
World Council of Chs calls for resistance by Christians in totalitarian lands; message to Inter-Amer Evangelical Cong expresses concern at denial of religious freedom to others by dominant creeds
Twenty-five years ago, or even ten years ago, the attendance of Soviet officials at the crowning of a patriarch of the Russian Church would have been unthinkable. They did, however, attend ...
Liberty, said John Stuart Mill, is something greater than any system of government. It involves the spiritual integrity of the individual soul and so provides the test by which systems are to be judged.
IN brief, I have found my religion in the theatre where I least expected to find it and where few will credit that it exists. But it is there, and any man among you who tries to write plays will find himself serving it, if only because he can succeed in no other way.
IN the light of recent scientific discovery thoughtful and specu  lative books upon the religion of the future are entirely pertinent and to be welcomed.
The nature of Moscow's reply to protests by Pius XI and the Archbishop of Canterbury against religious persecution was predetermined.
Lr from Mrs S S Wise on customary procedure with regard to decisions on religion of foundlings
Recent years have seen remarkable gifts to religious institutions from those not directly connected with them. In such contributions denominational lines have been obliterated and differences of creed and race ignored.
If Mr. ROBERT LYND intended his article in the September Atlantic on religion as the essential background for great literature as a challenge, he is likely to get numerous replies.
The words of AMIEL concerning religion, printed on another page of THE TIMES today, may be pondered with profit by every reader, whatever his faith or want of it. Never before, perhaps, have nations so much needed religion as a motive and sanction, and as ...
Again we have free coinage of silver assuming the guise of something sacred. It is an old phenomenon or affliction. There are, of course, many disinterested and intelligent advocates of bimetalism in some form or other. But along with them there has always gone, whenever silver was toyed with by the Government, a group of fanatics who take a transcendental, one might almost say superstitious, view of the question.
William H. Wranek's quotation from Jefferson in THE TIMES of April 2, showing Jefferson's belief that the Constitution placed all religions "on an equal footing" and endorsing "freedom of religion," expresses the two basic features of the Jeffersonian doctrine.
ed, The new religion, on his report to Communist Internatl on "The Winding-Up of the Versailles Treaty,"
Rev Facey charges book God's Underground uses incidents from N S Timasheff book Religion in Soviet Russia; authors deny use
The consolation obtained by some Soviet Jews from their religion has been singled out for contemptuous treatment in connection with the campaign against "cosmopolitanism" in the Soviet Union, Russian newspapers received here disclosed.
The Rev. Dr. Henry Sioane Coffin sets forth in "A More Christian Industrial Order "his belief that our so-called labor problem may be solved if all the parties concerned in it ...
In Bishop MANNING'S thoughtful, broad-minded and vigorous address before the Diocesan Convention nothing was better said, or needed to be said more, than his reproof of that dangerous and false " liberality " which has ...
QUITO, Ecuador, Nov. 27 -- At the other end of the social level from the wealthy Colombian industrialists in the Department of Antioquia, a religious factor exists that has played a part in the violence preceding the uncontested election held in Colombia today under martial law.
Christians and Jews Natl Conf urges US act on persecution in E Eur; Sec Acheson replies; to raise issue in UN
Heroism shown in war, glory won in war, these have been preached about and dinned into the heads of all mankind, pictured as noble and worthy through all history. CARL SCHURZ deplored the exaltation of military glory and the military spirit in THIERS'S "History of the Consulate and Empire," because of its evil influence upon the French people.
School Bd files additional brief asserting prohibiting ps bldgs use for religious educ is to commit religion to anarchy
A Roman Catholic protest against the public performance of a play in which the Founder of Christianity appears in person does not excite wonder. To be sure, the Church first schooled the multitudes in the traditions and symbols of the religion by means of the miracle and mystery plays, and some of these, though they were made to serve their purpose, were coarse and even indecent, according to modern Ideas.
Illinois Sup Ct rules educ in pub schools does not violate US or Illinois Consts if classes are voluntary; dismisses Mrs V McCollum suit to halt voluntary teaching; appeal planned
THAT Russia is going through a period of religious revival is the opinion expressed by Boris Sokolov, a Socialist-Revolutionist, in an article in a Russian radical paper printed at Paris. To him it is an indication of the victory of Christianity over Bolshevism.
The Theosophical Association of New York this morning starts its second series of free public presentations of the leading religions of the world in Town Hall, 123 West Forty-third Street.
Much has been written since the death of ALGERNON CHARLES SWINBURNE about his religious belief. Some indignation was expressed because the rector of Bonchurch, who had been requested to take charge of the burial of the poet's body in the little churchyard on the Isle of Wight, was reported to have read the service of the Church of England at the grave.
Jewish and Prot NYC hs and coll students hold seminar sponsored by B'nai B'rith Youth Orgn and Prot Youth Council, Bridgehampton
com apptd by Dr C Seymour, pres, recommends strong religion dept as post-war project; univ Christian Assn sends excerpt of com study to alumni
"The God of Vengeance" has been widely played on the Continent of Europe and was produced here at the Jewish Art Theatre with Rudolph Schildkraut in the leading part, but it is not likely to achieve popularity in English unless Greenwich Village should develop an appetite for the seamy side of life beyond anything it has as yet displayed.
Rabbi M Berlin urges stress on Judaism in building Palestine; calls for financial aid from US Jews
The appeal of the Japanese "Religious Association" for a public subscription to restore the Christian churches and schools wrecked by a Japanese mob is one of the most curious and characteristic of recent Japanese events. Last September, it will be remembered, the populace of Tokio was very angry with the Portsmouth terms of peace, then newly announced.
E.P. Dutton  Co. have nearly ready for publication "Pro Fide: A Defense of Natural and Revealed Religion," by Charles Harris, B.D., examining chaplain to the Bishop of Llandaff. The volume has been written for three classes of readers:
One purpose of "The Religion of the Universe," the new book by J. Allanson Picton, M.A., author of "New Theories and the Old Faith," "The Mystery of Matter," "The Religion of Jesus," , is to show that the issues between religion and science have no definite finality, as set forth by Herbert Spencer in his "First Principles."
For any one to doubt the sincerity of Mr. E. Kay Robinson of England would be to do him a gross injustice. Yet one might very well question the propriety of his attitude as a critic of his own work; and, by thus finding fault with him, still commit no offense.
"One Religion: Many Creeds," by Ross Wynans, will shortly be published by G. P. Putnam's Sons. This Is a. series of papers which the author wrote years ago abroad, without any idea of publishing them. He gathered his material from various sources and writers. What the author presents in his book he desires to be viewed and considered as an inquiry on behalf of truth."
As an American citizen, and the son of a citizen, I thank you for your editorial in reply to Father Chadwick.
To the Editor of The New York Times: The Rev. Dr. R.S. MacArthur in Monday's TIMES is reported as saying: "The man who cannot put his religion in his politics must have very bad politics or very poor religion."
To the Editor of The New York Times: I think it was Thomas Carlyle who said, "Religion can no more be taught to men than it can be inherited by them." I am led to quote this anent the letters which have appeared in THE TIMES touching the teaching of religion in the common schools. Was not Carlyle right when he said what I have quoted?
WIDELY known as a writer and lecturer upon the religions of the world and upon the ethical and spiritual needs of life, Dr. Martin brings to the study he makes in this little book a reputation for scholarship and for profound conviction as to the value and necessity of high moral standards and goals that gives its survey an increased value.
4 Bapt groups score religious instruction in ps bldgs; file brief backing Mrs V McCollum case
Superior Ct upholds const of Chicago Educ Bd practice of releasing some pupils from school to attend religious classes, I Latimer case; appeal planned
THE fate that rules the making of books has brought for my  table an armful of new works, all relating to the most serious sides of life. Among them I see four formidable volumes on religion.
To the Editor of The New York Times: The pathetic plaint of the "Old Man in Doubt" will find a sympathetic echo in the hearts of many readers, and he will, I trust, receive kindly suggestions to the quiet of his soul.
US Sup Ct to rev Illinois Sup Ct decision on educ in pub schools, Mrs V McCollum suit
To the Editor of The New York Times: The movement of Roman Catholics to secure a system of education which shall not entirely ignore religion is a movement in the right direction. And their self-sacrificing effort in maintaining their parochial schools for this purpose ought to cause Protestants to blush, when it is compared with their own indifference in this matter.
I read in one of your recent issues a report of Col. Ingersoll's lecture on "Superstition." May I rid myself of a few reflections thereon, for the lecture raises many questions which will not down? What are the conditions of the Church that it invites the bitter attacks not only of the doughty Colonel, but also of even greater philosophers than he?
To the Editor of The New York Times: It is quite unnecessary that religion should be the foundation of the teaching of morality, as held by "Inquirer"; on the contrary, it is impossible to deduce the highest moral teachings from such standards.
The gentle reader of THE TIMES, E.N.P., who objects to religion as conducted with "soft lights and music" and "words, words, words," neglects to explain what she would like to put in the place of the sacred drama. She tells us (I say "she," for the letter is fraught with feminine delicacy) that she believes in the eternal verities such as the divinity of Christ.
Amer Educ Fellowship speakers urge religious instruction in pub schools rather than sectarian instruction on released time
Well cured cod, to be sure, is not to be disdained by any one; nevertheless by far the larger part of it is eaten by Catholics. It is the fresh cod of our inland fisheries that has supplied most of our markets, while the salted cod of the banks is chief sold either in Catholic countries or in lands where that religious element is large.
In the able review of Georges Brandes's late work on William Shakespeare in THE TIMES'S SATURDAY REVIEW a few weeks ago I notice this extract on Bishop Charles Wordsworth's "Knowledge and Use of the Bible": "A highly esteemed, very pious, but, I regret to say, quite unreadable work."
We find a brilliant mathematician, Prof. Clifford, launching invectives which, if they were just, would prove either that no religion at all has any right to mankind's regard, or that the Christian religion, at all events, has none. He calls Christianity "that awful plague which has destroyed two civilizations, and but barely failed to slay such promise of good as is now struggling to live amongst men."
Statistics show that next after fiction and history and biography, the books most largely published, are those which treat of religion. This statement refers only to the number published. As to readers, were it possible to obtain statistics, the showing might be different. But it remains true that a larger proportion of the reading public is interested in religious books than is commonly supposed.
In a Brotherhood Week sermon yesterday, Rabbi Joseph Zeitlin in Temple Ansche Chesed, 100th Street and West End Avenue, declared that "while all high religions stress man's brotherhood, the effectiveness of the message of religion
IN an article published in THE NEW YORK TIMES Magazine last  Sunday Professor Albert Einstein stated his view of "religion and science." He wrote that there are three stages of religious development--the first, that of primitive peoples: the "religion of fear"; the...
To the Editor of The New York Times: Among the various arguments that have been advanced against the ill-advised attempt of Gov. Odell to transfer the supervision of the charitable institutions from a board of twelve disinterested citizens to a commission of political appointees, I fail to notice reference to one point that should appeal to every lover of our Constitution.
To the Editor of The New York Times: Some time ago you published some quotations from an article by the Rev. Mr. McSweeny upon religion in our public schools, and a letter from some one signing himself "Protestant" on the same subject. May I ask the same favor for the few lines following?
THE volume, "The Revolutionary Function of the Modern Church," by J.H. Holmes, (G.P. Putnam,) the well-known pastor of the Church of the Messiah, is a representative contribution to a growing literature in which religion is identified with the social question and the spiritual welfare of society is regarded as bound up with civic enactments, a living wage, and the elimination of the causes of poverty and disease.
To the Editor of The New York Times: A few days ago two prominent colored men decided to visit Asbury Park and Ocean Grove for a little pleasure and recreation, never dreaming that they would be met with refusals because of their color at this great resort of American Methodists. It was a pitiful and pitiable sight, but such was the case.
To the Editor of The New York Times: In the letter of "An Inquirer," published in reply to Mr. B.'s letter on "Religion in Public Schools," the question of moral teaching as opposed to theological or socalled religious teaching is very ably touched upon. The teacher is not required to teach of or concerning God at all.
The New York Times Saturday Review of Books: The recent articles referring to the Agnosticism of Roger Williams have caused me no little surprise, from the fact that my early teaching, often confirmed by others, was that he belonged to the very orthodox Baptist denomination.
From The National Review. Every lapse in thought from the Christian standard spells degradation for multitudes. But it spells misery, too. The experiment of life, reduced to a play of molecular forces, does not correspond to the nature of things; it is a dream upon which reality is always breaking in, and the dreamer cannot sleep in peace.
I was pleased to read Mr. Felix Adler's address published in THE TIMES last Monday. It is the kind of religion that our people need and the kind that many wish for but seldom hear preached. It is suited to a large class of conscientious, earnest people who may be called Veritists -- Disciples of Truth. Their principles are embodied mainly in the following practical, ethical, and moral rules of conduct:
major clauses of new Const listed; Islam barred as state religion; inclusion of clause requiring Pres to be Moslem doubtful
THE London Times Literary Supplement is moved to print a "Defense of Rhyme." It does not clearly appear who is attacking rhyme, but it is certain that there will be fewer disposed to attack it now that The London Times has so well stated the case in its favor.
From The Jewish Chronicle. Compulsory religious education in Prussia has led to a curious result with, regard to the children of non-conformists. According to the socialistic organ, the Vorwarts, some parents have hit upon a rather peculiar expedient to relieve themselves of their difficulty.
SIR ARTHUR T. QUILLER-COUCH would not know how to write other than admirably, with vividness of description, clear-cut presentation of character and that sureness of touch which always differentiated the artist from the amateur. His latest novel, "Lady Good-For-Nothing," is in many ways well up to the standard he has set for himself; but, although it holds the reader's interest, it is laid down with some sense of disappointment.
"The Attitude of the Secular Press in America Toward Religion" was the subject considered at a meeting of the American Institute of Christian Philosophy last evening in the vestry of the Church of the Strangers. Mr. A.H. Siegfried, the eastern manager of the Chicago Daily News, presented the question from the standpoint of a newspaper man.
From Good Words. The talk turned somehow upon the life of the camp, and gradually we got to their religion. I asked them what sacrifices they made. "We sacrifice every year" -- 1 understood in our Spring. "For what?" "Minshan el mawat -- for the sake of the dead." "What good does it do the dead?"
800 Dodge UAWA Local 3 workers idle in dispute over co refusal to dismiss employer who refused to pay union dues on grounds of violating his religious tenets
Augustine Washington, like most scholarly Virginians of his time, was a deist. The only one of his children who appears to have been christened was George, which, may have been a concession to his second wife. According to his relative, Mrs. Throckmorton, George was prayerful in childhood, and there are two or three quotations from hymns in one of his earliest copybooks written in a childish hand.
THE author of this book is a Catholic priest and his work is the result of the labor of ten years. Moreover, the work bears the imprimatur of  so eminent a man as Cardinal Gibbons.
BASED on a series of three lectures delivered at Yale University on the Dwight Harrington Terry Foundation, this little volume offers a stimulating view of modern religion as influenced by modern science that makes of religious belief a workaday, evolving factor of life.
In your issue of the 21st inst. one T. G. Shearman, in twenty-three cantos, as it were, gives his opinion of the Republic of the Transvaal in such form that if the illiterate, ignorant rigmarole did not bespeak the writer's status, moral and mental, one would be led to think the Dutch race (our own respected founders) should never have supplanted the hottentot Kings of Southern Africa.
It seems almost beyond belief that in this age of general enlightenment great masses of supposedly intelligent people should permit themselves to be deluded in the most preposterous manner by obviously irresponsible individuals, who pose before the public in the ridiculous guise of divine healers, faith curists, Christian Scientists, and evangelists.
TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES: Despite the fact that President Roosevelt's move for a declaration of religious freedom in Russia could only be universally acclaimed, it is very doubtful whether it can bring about any visible change in the status of religion in the Soviet Union.
The recent letter from the Pope to the American Catholic Bishops, in which his Holiness requests that the prelates of the different dioceses make special efforts to provide for the spiritual welfare of Italian Immigrants, has led Archbishop Corrigan to give his sanction to the ...
It may be remembered by students of Church history, as an incident in a controversy of winder import between Mr. Gladstone and Cardinal Manning, that the former denied the Cardinal's claim of Maryland as a place where the Church of Rome had given religious toleration. Dr. Smith's very interesting and able volume is written with the purpose of emphasizing and substantiating Mr. Gladstone's assertion.
When re  turning to Buda-Posth, Mohammed Naim, an Afghan dervish, called upon me. He related to me the details of his extraordinary adventures, and the impression produced...
Perhaps the best and most exact picture of what was really being done in our churches in the early years of Elizabeth's reign is found in the dry, grim records of the returns, in 1566, from Lincolnshire parishes, printed in Mr. Peacock's valuable work. These returns were made to the Bishop, Archdeacon, and other royal Commissioners in reply to definite queries as to all "monumentes of supersticion" remaining since Mary's death.
TWO declarations express the breath and spirit of the new religious militant organization the Religious Citizenship League. "If the religious people get together nothing can stand in their way." writes Dr. Walter Raschenhusch, President of the league, while Dr. Stephen S. Wise of the Free Synagogue says: "The league is an opportunity and a challenge to all the religious forces."
One hundred and fifty members of the Congregational Club, after a dinner at Clark's last night, listened to or took part in a discussion of the subject "The Teaching of Religion in Our Higher Institutions of Learning." The Rev. Dr. James H. Ecot, of Albany, read a paper giving the definition of religion and education and held that they should go hand in hand.
"The Relation of Literature to Religion" was discussed at the November meeting of the Congregational Club held last evening. Roswell Smith, the President; Dr. Edward Eggleston, the Rev. Dr. William H. Ward, of the Independent, Hamilton W. Mayhie, and the Rev. Dr. Ward, of ...
BALTIMORE, April 24.--Mrs. Wilson, wife of Dr. W.W. Wilson, a dentist on Madison-avenue, one of the most fashionable thoroughfares of the city, committed suicide after three attempts.
PROFESSOR LYMAN of Union Theological Seminary has written a great book. It is important because, like other books now appearing, it is typical of a certain trend of thought. In Dr. Lyman we see the working of the modernist mind in its best and its latest mood.
TORONTO, July 29.--Some of the players in the Toronto baseball team are Catholics and some Protestants. There is much opposition between the men of different religions.
LOCKPORT, N.Y., Oct. 7.--There promises to be a warm discussion in the Genesee Conference of the Methodist Episcopal Church, now in session at Rochester, on the third party question.
The Congregational Club of New-York gave a dinner and public reception at Clark's last evening, the occasion being the last meeting of the organization prior to the Summer vacation, Prof. J.M. Hoppin, in an address on ...
The Women's Committee of the National Conference of Jews and Christians will discuss "The Future of Religion in America" Wednesday morning at the Hotel McAlpin. Mrs. Andrew J. Noe, president of the New York City Federation of Women's Clubs, will preside.
As Rome became a residence for all strange gods, it also became both the religious capital of the world and its religious centre. It became, and was called, the "Holy City" and the "Eternal City"; and so, when Christianity ultimately triumphed, it still retained those titles, and became naturally, as well as for other reasons, regarded ad the religious capital of the Christian world.
There was one as  pect of Scottish village life to which it was impossible for Burns, even when a very young man, to be indifferent. This was the extraordinary interest excited by theological controversy. At this time there were two parties in the Scottish Church, the Old ...
In mat  ters of religion the Roman is decidedly devout. One need only go into one of the parish churches, such as Sant' Andrea della Valle or Sant' Agostnio, to see that religion...
After announcing that there would be no prayer meeting in Plymouth Church on Christmas night, and stating that gifts of fruit and cake--good cake--would be acceptable at the Mayflower and Bethel Sunday schools for ...
SPRINGFIELD, Mo., July 10.--A novel incident occurred at the county jail here this afternoon. While a number of ladies were holding a Scriptural and song meeting in the corridors of the jail for the benefit of the prisoners one fair...
It may  be asked, what was the religion of Confucius himself? It must be answered: he accepted what he found without laying stress upon any special doctrines. While reverencing an unseen divine power, he yet never spoke of it as personal.
From Harper's Magazine. Apache had not always rejoiced in a church. Some four years ago the Bishop had been holding services at Waywego, the nearest town to the north. After service a stranger came forward and invited him to Apache.
One of the first  things that strikes the stranger in St. Petersburg, and still more in Moscow, is the constant crossing that goes on in the streets.
The origin  of religion is to be sought in the countless ages before the rise of theology; before spirits, ghosts, or gods ever took definite form in the human mind. The primitive uncultured man frankly worshiped external objects in love and in fear, ascribing to them quasi-human powers and feelings.
KNOXVILLE, Tenn., April 20.--A convention of Presbyterian ministers and laymen of both branches of the church was held in this city this week and adjourned last night. They passed resolutions expressing a desire that the distinction of "Northern and Southern," as applied to the two branches in the South, be abolished and agreeing to work in East Tennessee as one organization.
WARSAW, N.Y., Dec. 12.--At a revival meeting held at South Warsaw two years ago a young man named Thomas Porter reached a very excited condition.
DECATUR, Ill., July 14.--John Ritchie, who became demented by religious excitement, has been adjudged insane by the County Court. He first began studying the Bible six weeks ago, and became fascinated with its contents to such an extent that he neglected his occupation and soon lost his mental balance.
It is  fair to presume that no one sect a hundred years ago, if it had posessed the exclusive power, would have established by law, absolute religious liberty for all sects. When, therefore, we trace the origin of religious liberty as guaranteed by the Constitution, it is erroneous to ascribe it to ...
RELIGION and democracy--their names are linked today as never before. It may have been supposed that they existed independ  ent of each other, but suddenly they are challenged by world forces equally hostile to both.
LANCASTER, Dec. 21.--Felix Baum, Junior of the Theological Seminary, and Frank Schoedler, Junior of the Franklin and Marshall College, have severed their connection with those institutions, and yesterday joined St. Anthony's Catholic Church, making a public profession of faith. Baum was a beneficiary from Lehigh classis.
SEATTLE, Washington, May 25. -- The State Prohibition Convention. which ha Just closed here, voted down a proposition to. incorporate the words "We accept Jesus Christ as ar leader" in the preamble of the Sta;te platform. ]Siinisters and delegates stood solidly against l saying it would arouse the hostility or the Jeers and others who differ in religion.
When the English edition of "Esoteric Buddhism" appeared last year many copies came to America and naturally fell into the hands of people interested in Oriental studies and studies of the "occult." It was evident at once that Mr. Sinnett belonged to quite another category than Mme.
It is quite extraordinary how callous even the most religious persons in the past have often been to the miseries of their fellow-creatures, both in this world and the next. They have, indeed, expressed their gratitude for being safe and sound themselves, but not without a feeling of complacency that others are not so fortunate.
The arguments for and against compulsory attendance at public religious services are receiving some attention at Harvard and at Yale. While the undergraduates at Harvard are asking that they shall no longer be required to attend morning prayers, it is reported that some ...
The Italian Gov  ernment, like most other civilized Governments of our time, are at odds with their church with respect to the management or their schools. They cannot find a midway between the tuition of the Jesuits, ...
BUFFALO, Jan. 11.--The Point Chautauqua Baptist Association is preparing a new charter to be presented to the Legislature this Winter for adoption, by which the character of the association will be changed from a religious association to a business corporation.
Minister (to young man)--I am very glad to see you at church so regularly on Sunday evenings, Mr. Smith, but I think you sit too near the door to fully enjoy the services. If you like I will instruct the sexton to show you a seat further--
The religion of the colored people of the South differs widely from the Christian religion as it exists among white people. When a clergyman at the last meeting of the Church Congress pointed out the fact that ...
ROCHESTER, N.Y., Oct. 5. -- The triple jubilee, to mark the thirtieth year of the Right Rev. B.J. McQuaid's service in the American Catholic hierarchy, his fiftieth year in the Roman Catholic priesthood, and the seventy-fifth anniversary of the creation of St. Patrick's parish, was celebrated to-day in St. Patrick's Cathedral.
Chapel, gift of J D Rockefeller, dedicated; J D Rockefeller Jr announces establishing of L S Rockefeller Memorial Fund for Religion
PHILADELPHIA, March 14.--The National Reform Association to-day announced a convention at Association Hall in this city, to begin on Monday evening, March 24, and to continue the next day, for the purpose of discussing the principles and aims of the National Reform move-...
Reply to lr on indiscriminate use of label by clergy and their efforts to restrain discussion
The effort to amend the Sunday law so as to legalize fishing on that day will strike many persons as a very odd affair. Why should fishing rather than any other sport be selected as a fit and proper Sunday recreation?
--When the  missionary holds a Sunday service in King Kongo-Mpaka's house, some 20 or 30 idlers look in, a genial way, to see what is going on, much as we might be present at any of their ceremonies.
COLUMBUS, Ga., April 7.--Disturbance of public worship in this city has grown so general that the authorities have been called upon to suppress it.
Safe return to Yugoslavia seen impossible by Bishop Manning, lr replying to Rev W H Melish Sept lr
In 1871 Mr. James Freeman Clarke published his "Ten Great Religions," a book that found many readers and among them not a few who were startled by the boldness of his stand. It was inevitable that others should...
This volume was found in manuscript among the unpublished writings of the author, whose death occurred in September, 1881. For many years he gave an unquestioned adherence to the verbal inspiration of the Old and New Testaments and to the doctrines of the orthodox Churches, considering them essential ...
THIS sincere, deeply felt and ten eloquently written work endeavors to bring into harmony the "new science" and the "old religion" of its title and to show that there is no essential conflict between them but that, rather, the developments of science tend to prove the truths of religion.
Mr. LESLIE STEPHEN has recently discussed, in one of the leading reviews, the "Religion of All Sensible Men," or, in other words, the religion which is to be adopted at some future time by men who ...
One of those little incidents which occasionally enliven religious meetings in the South-west occurred last week in the town of Rogers, Mo. Divine service was in progress in some unspecified variety of meetinghouse, when Dr. ELLIOTT, the proprietor of the local distillery, interrupted the sermon by firing at Mr. ROBERTS.
THE subjects of satire well-defined and few in number; they are the passions, the ideas which underlie human institutions, social, political or religious. Of these, religion is by far the most vital, as it is the most difficult to ridicule.
WESTERN civilization is doomed if religion. on which it is founded. should fail. With that thought, expressed in a notable inaugural address, the Rev. Dr. John A. Mackay assumed, this month, the presidency of Princeton Theological Seminary.
Scientists who have served as "medicine-men" in building matrials of warfare were condemned by John Haynes Holmes of the Community Church in his sermon, "The New Warfare of Science and Religion," yesterday morning at the Town Hall, 123 West Fortythird Street.
TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES: Dr. Phillips Elliott of the First Presbyterian Church in Brooklyn, one of the seven Protestant clergymen who defended the Tito government's treatment of religion, makes two main points in his letter in the Aug. 26 NEW YORK TIMES.
There is often a curious apparent irrelevancy in statistics which renders them extremely fascinating. For example, statistics show us that a man's Croton water pipes burst with marked frequency when he is between 41 and 45 years of age, after which ...
SINCE the very establishment of the Christian religion up to the present time it has never been given to a Bishop of the Church to number as many persons of immense wealth under his personal diocesan authority nor to have direct control of as tremenduously a rich diocese as has the Right Rev. David Hummell Greer, Episcopal Bishop of the Diocese of New York.
TELEVISION will promote the theatre; there is no good reason for suspicion or fear on either side. Our experience to date indicates that television and Broadway have a natural affinity; they have much to gain and little to lose by the closest possible cooperation with each other.
Salvation Army in Jersey City to pick up intoxicated men after saloons close and bed them down in Army's lodging room; Police Chief questions legality of such action
Young woman (to Prof. B., champion roller skater)--There is my friend, Prof. S., of Harvard. I want you to meet him.
The Iron and Kindred Trades Cleveland and Stevenson Campaign Club, 1,300 strong, formed in front of the clubhouse, at 66 John Street, and behind a band of forty pieces, marched up Willlam Street, to Beekman, to Park Row, to Centre Street, to Leonard Street and Broadway, where 200 hardware men from Chambers Street were waiting to join them, with another large band.
National Council of Boy Scouts of America brings suit in equity to restrain organization known as United States Boy Scouts from using in its name the words boy scout, scout, &c.
Repr J J Kindred testifies before House com that 2.75 per cent beer is not intoxicating
Congressman J.J. Kindred of the Long Island City district has taken up the cause of the East River Park, which was placed upon the city map some years ago, but which was given up about the time that the city bought Kissena Park, at Flushing.
The New York Times Saturday Review of Books: Mr. William Roscoe Thayer, in his "Statement of the Real Character of the Bortgia Pope." in THE NEW YORK TIMES SATURDAY REVIEW OF BOOKS, did not squarely meet the objections made to his remarks as published on Dec. 27. While the statement was vigorous, it was not at all to the point.
Down-and-out sleuth falls for woman he was hired to frame.Having an ample plot to prowl in, William Powell is revealed at his most entertaining in "Private Detective 62," which found precious few dissenters at the Radio City Music Hall yesterday. Mr. Powell has a talent for furtive heroics, and it is the best of fun to watch him slipping through the shadows of criminal melodrama. As co-partner of one of the less aromatic detective agencies, he knows what unfaithful wives and suspicious husbands would give a handsome sum to find out. He can tell as lovely a lady as Margaret Lindsay how lovely she really is. Dropping the gallant manner two minutes later, he can turn on a sniffling dope addict and pry some interesting secrets out of him.Although the story has not all the raciness and zest it might have owned (and the numeral which seems so portentous in the title has somehow gotten lost in the film), "Private Detective 62" is a hearty melodrama and Mr. Powell is excellent in it. On the shady side of respectability, where the Peerless Detective Agency is quartered, life has its own color and variety. Today one is betraying a misunderstood wife in Atlantic City; tomorrow the assignment has shifted to a gambling casino in the Fifties. Simple blackmail may become murder.Donald Free, which is the name of the detective whose adventures Mr. Powell pictures, has a comparatively respectable job as under-cover man for the American diplomatic service in Paris until he is caught red-handed by the French in the act of appropriating the contents of a secret treaty. To protect itself, the American Foreign Office discredits him. Back in New York he finds jobs scarce, and he finally aligns himself with a disreputable agency which specializes in divorce cases.Janet Reynolds, beautiful, wealthy and foolish, indulges her passion for gambling in an exclusive club, and with an incredible streak of luck runs her credit up to $50,000. The proprietor hires the agency to "frame" the girl, so that she will not be able to collect the money owed her. Donald Free's partner arranges for Janet to shoot the proprietor with a gun from which the shells have been extracted, and then double-crosses the man by having him actually killed a few minutes later. The process by which Free saves the girl from a murder charge and solves the mystery of the double shooting is one which provides "Private Detective 62" with a dnouement of suspense and excitement.Miss Lindsay (she is the charming English actress who went down with the Titanic in "Cavalcade") reveals a very considerable talent and loveliness as the gambling girl. There are two other interesting performancesby Arthur Hohl as the treacherous and unscrupulous partner in the agency and by James Bell as the "snowbird" (underworld for dope addict), who is the "trigger man" (underworld for hired murderer) for the agency.
Something entirely new in the way of co-operative buying of men's and boys' garments, and furnishings, from head to foot and from the skin out, is to be carried on here by an organisation recently incorporated in this State, with a capitalization of $100,000.
PHILADELPHIA, Oct. 18. -- Ryerson W. Jennings of this city, a relative of William J. Bryan, on Aug. 24 wrote to Count Leo Tolstoy, asking for his views on the Presidential contest in this country. He has received the following letter in reply, written in English:
French attitude on reform and on application of sanctions against aggressor announced in Ministerial declaration read by Premier Blum in Sen and Foreign Min Delbos in Chamber of Deputies
THIS IS an age of amazing critical industry and erudition. An army of able editors is busily engaged in collating the manuscripts of masterpieces with the common texts, and purging these last, as with a hyssop, of the corruptions conduced by the carelessness of earlier, more easy-going scholars. Nor, apparently, is all this work undertaken for the sole delectation of a special public.
Another important sale was made last week in the Ditmars Avenue section of Astoria, where John Katzman is now erecting the largest apartment house in Long Island City.
Many physicians and surgeons who are residents of New York and Long Island have received envelopes from Washington, D.C., marked with the Congressional frank of Congressman John J. Kindred of Astoria, L.I. The envelopes are marked as containing a speech on "The Election of Senators" delivered in the House of Representatives on April 13, 1911.
There was a marked increase in the number of deaths reported during the week ending at noon yesterday, as compared with the number reported during the preceding week. During the week ending on Nov. 25, the deaths reported numbered 676, while for last week the number reported was 759, an increase of 83.
NEW-ORLEANS, Dec. 9.--The Public Health Association met at 10 o'clock this morning. Savannah, Ga., was selected as the place of meeting in November, 1881. The following officers of the Health Association for the ensuing year were elected: President--Dr. Charles B. White, of NewOrleans; First Vice-President--Dr. R.C. Kedzie, ...
Now that the Fair Grounds at White Plains have been sold and the charter under which a fair was operated there having expired, a society in which several Wall Street financiers are interested has been formed, and they have received from the State a perpetual charter under the name of the Westchester Agricultural and Horticultural Society, giving them the sole and exclusive right to hold a county fair in Westchester.
An important charitable event of the coming week will be the theatre party on Wednesday night sponsored by the National Public Housing Conference.
Trade, Condition of; the Financial Panic and; How the Different Branches were Affected; Reviews of, &c.
When the sun smiled over the winding streets of Cherry Hill early yesterday morning many of the inhabitants of that historic spot were stirring about in anticipation of a day of rare enjoyment. Cherry Hill is in that portion of the Fourth Ward which is almost under the shadow of the Brooklyn bridge.
ONE'S first impression on taking up L.H. Bailey's a little book on "The Training of Farmers" might be that it assumes to tell the methods by which the coming farmer is to be taught how to make agriculture more of a financial success and less of a physical burden.
ATLANTIC CITY, N.J., Sept. 24.-- Plans were formulated here today for the creation of the American Association of Ice and Refrigeration, which, it is expected, will embrace 2,500 corporations and firms.
Marshall, (Vice Pres) T. R., discusses strikes, thinks high cost of leisure is real problem behind labor demands
CHICAGO, Dec. 31.--Standing on the threshold of the New Year, conservative people in this section are not looking for a rapid restoration of business. There are spots here and there where improvement has been most notable; but the rest are showing little gain; they barely hold their own.
"Kindred," the Paul Vincent Carroli play, will close Saturday night after sixteen performances, and its producers, Edward Choate and Arthur Shields, will launch immediately a revival of "Juno and the Paycock," with Barry Fitzgerald, who appears in "Kindred," and Sara Allgood co-starred. They will have the roles which they portrayed in the original presentation of the ...
HAVE you some literature on Panturanism?" I timidly asked of one of the brightest and prettiest librarians of the New York Public Library.
Decries preaching on current events, s before conf of Presbytery of N Y and Presbytery of Bklyn-Nassau
Paul Vincent Carroll, whose two earlier plays, "Shadow and Substance" and "The White Steed," won the foreign play awards of the Drama Critics Circle, is the author of "Kindred," which opens this evening at Maxine Elliott's, the curtain rising at 8:45 sharp.
A glimpse of New York's tremendous port problem was obtained yesterday under the guidance of the Port of New York Authority by 104 Congressmen and New York and New Jersey State officials and legislators, who toured the harbor on the steamboat Visitor.
SINCE the days when first he introduced us to the "Beloved Vaga  bond," Mr. Locke has delighted in portraying eccentric characters, men and women very far out of the ordinary.
Kindred, Edward C., arrested in Boston; is wanted in N. Y. on charge of embezzling from Flinn-O'Rourke Co.
The big touring car in which Edward C. Kindred, who was paymaster for the Booth  Flinn Corporation, disappeared on Wednesday with the firm's payroll of $22,119.70, and which the police found four hours later at the curb at Centre and Worth Streets, was attached yesterday by the Sheriff's Office, following an indictment returned by the Grand Jury charging grand larceny against the missing man.
Acting under orders of Attorney General Daugherty and Commissioner of Immigration Husband, the United States Department of Labor yesterday started an investigation into the employment of Chinese labor in manufacturing plants in the Lauret Hill section of Long Island City.
We were somewhat surfeited with the poetry of "The Earthly Paradise" after that collection of tales reached its third part. "The Story of Sigurd the Volsung" and "The Life and Death of Jason" seemed too facile and thinly beaten. We reluctantly came to the conclusion that William Morris had not, any more than many another writer, known when to stop.
When the Thirty-fourth annual meeting of the National Board of Trade is held in Washington on Jan. 19 and the following days, many topics of much moment in the business world will be discussed, and it is expected that the decisions then reached will have weight in influencing legislation in Congress.
"Foreigners," Frederick Lonsdale's latest play, will close its run after tonight's performance at the Belasco Theatre. It opened last Tuesday and will cease after playing only seven times. Also departing tonight is the most recent edition of George White's "Scandals," ...
J J Kindred suggests development of Montauk Pt to relieve congestion at Port of N Y
DALLAS, Tex., Oct. 4.--Six district judges in Texas today were on record as having denounced the Ku Klux Klan. Most of the judges included all other Kindred orders in Texas in their denunciation.
BEFORE going off to war (as a lieutenant in the United States Army), Joseph Stanley Pennell sat himself down in Junction City, Kan., and wrote "The History of Rome Hanks and Kindred Matters," an extended and fully amazing novel. The book is the story of the American forebears of Robert Lee Harrington, who has at least a superficial resemblance to Pennell himself.
The Italian Duca degli Abruzzi and the Hamburg-American liner Moltke, both in yesterday morning from Naples, brought several refugees from the earthquake-stricken cities of Sicily and Calabria. Several well-to-do Italians living in this country, who were visiting the earthquake section at the time of the catastrophe, were among the cabin passengers of the Moltke.
The physicians of the city are apparently unanimous in the opinion that the digging up of the streets for repairs to underground pipes and conduits and other purposes is a serious injury to the health of the public, and that a system of subways would prevent much of the sickness from which the people now suffer, and would diminish the death rate.
Theatregoers of the season of 1933-34 will no doubt remember "Mary of Scotland" and more particularly the team of Helen Hayes and Philip Merivale. As events stand this morning, Miss Hayes and Mr. Merivale will be reunited this Fall.
Lucky Jean, owned and bred by William V. Dwyer, managing director of the Gables Racing Association, surprised a big crowd at Tropical Park today when she won the featured High Springs Purse, a dash of five and a half furlongs for 3-year-olds.
WASHINGTON, Sunday, May 21.--At a conference of President Harding with nineteen leading railroad executives, lasting until 12:30 o'clock this morning, the President virtually asked the railroad men that all the large roads of the country co-operate with the Interstate ...
Combined with Rockefeller Foundation; Spelman Fund of N Y created to continue its work concerning child life
CONSTANTINOPLE, June 9. The Russians are making retrograde movements at various points. The railway between Varna and Rustchuk will shortly be reopened.
OF the very interesting animal who is the hero of these adventures, Mr. Roberts says that "the incidents in his career are not only consistent with the known characteristics and capacities of the fox family, but there is authentic record of them all in the accounts of careful observers. Every one of these experiences has befallen some red fox in the past, and may befall other red foxes in the future."
In many cases of deafness that present themselves to us for treatment, the loss of hearing can be clearly traced to some triffing aural complaint which commenced during infancy or childhood, and which was allowed to run its course unchecked and unattended, though the whole difficulty might have been completely removed by a few weeks' suitable treatment applied in time.
WASHINGTON, April 12.--A lively and interesting debate occurred to-day in the House over the bill to appropriate $65,000 to William and Mary College of Virginia, for the destruction of the college buildings during the rebellion. Mr. Goode, of Virginia, opened the debate in an able speech of one hour's duration, and was followed by Dr. Loring, of Massachusetts. This was Dr. Loring's maiden effort in
The diseases of the ear most prevalent and most destructive to hearing are of a chronic character, giving neither pain nor distress, nor presenting any other feature calculated to rouse immediate alarm. The approach of deafness in such cases is so extremely insidious that a patient is unable to tell when the...
Peterhoff, steamer; Argument of Hon. E. Delafield SmithThis address is extracted from a stenographic report of the trial in the case of the prize steamer Peterhoff, which has been printed by private persons for transmission to Europe:
IN Paris the women are clothes mad. They have always been mad about men and clothes over there, but this month man is utterly out of it. He is reduced to insignificance. He is an atom in the whirl of things.
Kindred, H J: Emporia bankers believed to have been slain at own request to leave ins to wife; found to be in debt; W E Gayer, held, denies killing; ins men claim murder at own request is suicide, voiding policy
Reduces sentence of Capt Henkes, who attempted to resign from army to escape making war on kindred
The sportsman who about this time of year begins to banker for a gun and a dog will find a kindred spirit in Archibald Rutledge, Southern sportsman and author, whose adventure tales of the game trails of the South Carolina pinelands and Santa Deltee swamps have recently been published under the title "Old Plantation Days."
Brit Fed of Master Printers accepts Printing and Kindred Trades Fed revised demands following inquiry, jobbing printing and binding indus, GB
Comr R E Enright supports Kindred bill for creation of Federal police office before House Com
California School District An issue of 5490,000 of school bonds of Palo Verde Unified School District, Riverside County, Calif., was awarded yesterday to Barkus, Kindred  Co. and associates at a bid of 100.60 for 3s. The issue will come due on each Feb. 1 from 1948 to 1972.
The one-story building containing 20,000 square feet of floor space at 19-19 Twenty-fourth Avenue, Long Island City, L. I., was leased by the General Steel Products Corporation, manufacturers of metal cabinets, shelving and kindred products. Arthur J. Goldsmith and the Cross  Brown Company, co-brokers, negotiated the lease.
The making of food and kindred products aproximates 30 per cent, of the production of Brooklyn's manufacturing industries, according to information furnished to the Federal Department of Commerce yesterday by Ralph Jonas, President of the Brooklyn Chamber of Commerce.
protests against bill authorizing Sec of War to dispose of Hoboken shore line to Port Authority, in lr to Repr Kindred
Demands Sen investigation of D A R and kindred organizations which are accused of serving as catspaws of W B Shearer
College Ave (9-2434). e s, 311 ft n of 166th St. 38x100; Katherina Adam to Julia Kampf, 23-67 Kindred St, Astoria, L. I. Arnow Ave (16-4527), s s, 37 ft e of Bouck Ave, 38x75; Gaetano Noto to Louis Tenore. 674 Rhinelander Ave. Bruner Ave, 3,021 (16-4775); Mary Freese to Harry Jones, 758 E 222d St.
A series of lectures and discussions on marriage and kindred subjects will be given in the second semester at Vassar College.
The Hale Tool Company, manufacturer of machine tools, leased the building at 113 Edison Place, Newark, N.J., from Mary E. Jackson through Louis Schlesinger, broker, who also leased the bottling plant formerly used by the Wiedenmayer brewery at 604-08 Market Street, southeast corner of Chambers Street, Newark, to Andrews-Steib, Inc., for the warehousing and distribution of brass, copper and kindred products.
CHICAGO, June 2. -- The proposed referendum on the Volstead law is denounced in a statement issued today by twelve prohibition leaders, including officials of the Women's Christian Temperance Union, the Anti, Saloon League and kindred organizations and several ministers.
A lease for approximately 40,000 square feet of space taken by the Eastern Isles Importing Company, Inc., underwear and kindred lines firm, at 45 West Eighteenth Street, featured the contracts for commercial space reported by brokers yesterday.
Vanity Fair Pearls, Inc., has leased the building at 155-01 South Road, Jamaica, Queens, for use in the manufacture of simulated pearls and kindred objects. The company, headed by Louis Rabinowitz, formerly president of the Valjean Pearl Corporation, has its showrooms at 377 Fifth Avenue, where its sales representative is the House of Hordan.
Additional lines of ginghams and kindred fabrics were priced in this market yesterday, when Smith, Hogg  company issued the following list of quotations ...
All lovers of poetry, philosophy, history, science, and the arts will welcome the translation of Victor Hugo's "Postscriptum de Ma Vie," about to be published. It is one of two manuscripts left by the great poet, and is a series of notebooks containing intimate reflections upon life and religion that interest kindred minds of all times.
Coins, medals and autographs reminiscent of Civil War days comprise a large proportion of the 1,800 lots of numismatic and kindred material to be sold at auction by Thomas L. Elder next Friday and Saturday afternoons at 8 West Thirty-seventh Street. One of the choicest things in the sale is an autograph note of Abraham Lincoln, written April 8, 1864.
THE TIMES editorial section of Dec. 9 contained three contributions of immediate and somewhat kindred interest. Admiral Fiske pointed out the danger in certain policies, F.R. Coudert bespoke the desirability of Anglo-American cooperation on the high seas and Charles A. Selden indicated the British are eager to have an understanding with us.
It was said of Pope ALEXANDER V that he was saved from the nepotism which characterized other ecclesiastics of his time by virtue of the fact that he was without kindred or relatives. How often must Mr. McCOOEY ...
New and higher prices on ginghams. chambrays and kindred fabrics were announced yesterday by Smith, Hogg  Co. of this city. The advances range ...
WASHINGTON, March 31.--An appropriation of $17,000,000 to give additional hospital facilities for war veterans is authorized by a bill passed late today by the House without a record vote. By a viva voce vote the House rejected an amendment by Representative Kindred, Democrat, of New York, to raise the appropriation to $35,000,000.
PARIS, Aug. 30. -- Secretary Mellon arrived in Paris late today and is stopping at the Crillon Hotel. Unfortunately, the French press persists in attaching supreme significance to the visit of the American Finance Minister, and long articles are being published on the possibility of his seeing Poincare and discussing a revision of the debt accord, loans to France, annual payments and kindred subjects.
FAIRMONT, West Van, Dec. 15. -- The permanent Relief Committee, headed by Gov. W.M.O. Dawson, to provide for the widows and orphans in distress through the recent explosion at the mines of the Fairmont Coal Company at Monongah, to-day prepared an appeal for funds that is being sent to Chambers of Commerce and kindred organizations all over the country.
Mr. GUTZON BORGLUM predicts in the forthcoming number of The Craftsman that the art school of to-day will pass and be replaced by the school of crafts. This city has already in the Metropolitan Museum the nucleus for a "system of education in the crafts kindred to the fine arts."
CONSTANTINOPLE, Aug. 18. -- The American Legation will acknowledge the receipt of the Porte's note confirming its undertaking to accord the same treatment to American schools and kindred institutions as is granted to the most favored nation, "subject to the usual departmental formalities."
RALEIGH, N.C., Jan. 3.--Dr. Kindred Baugham, a prominent citizen of Northmpton County, committed suicide on Thursday last by drinking laudanum.
Prof. Morris Jastrow, Jr., of the University of Pennsylvania will lecture to-morrow at Columbia College. A course of lectures, just concluded in Philadelphia, delivered by Prof. Jastrow, Jr., on Islamism and other kindred opics, has attracted marked attention.
The causes which  led to Mohammed's success will be best understood by taking a rapid glance at the condition of Arabia about the time of his birth. It must be borne in mind that a vague belief in one God existed among the Arab tribes long before that event. Nor must it be forgotten that the Arabs and Jews were kindred races, speaking kindred languages, and having kindred ...
During the Winter season now rapidly coming to a close, hockey, ice skating and other kindred sports have enjoyed one of the most successful seasons in their history. Never were so many carnivals held.
Rept of Laymen's Foreign Missions Inquiry urges association of kindred elements in all religion to fight philosophies of Marx, Lenin, Russell
PARIS, Jan. 21.--(Associated Press)-- Owing to pressure of more urgent problems before delegates to the Peace Congress, various economic delegations are studying, each for itself, the blockade and kindred problems. It is probable that they will start joint discussions this week.
With the lights on again over half the world, and restrictions on fishing, boating, night bathing, picture taking and kindred pre-war pleasures either relaxed or in process of being lifted officially, resorts in the metropolitan area are looking forward to a banner summer, a survey yesterday disclosed.
ALBANY, Jan. 26. -- The ninety-eighth annual meeting of the Medical Society of the State of New York opened in this city to-day. President Algernon T. Bristow of Brooklyn delivered his annual address at the opening session, which was devoted to the reading of technical papers on medical and kindred subjects.
PANAMA, June 16.--The construction by the canal company of the large iron wharf at Greytown has been begun. The local newspapers say that three dredges have been received from Panama for this and kindred works.
The letter of "O.T. Alp," which you so thoughtfully published for our instruction and delight to-day, makes the writer think of the time when he really read such complaints seriously and was, consequently, always very much worried. The man with a grievance -- or is it a woman? -- is sure of finding some kindred souls who sympathize with him.
WASHINGTON, April 29.--The Retail Dry Goods Association and Kindred bodies which in the interest of trade are sending out urgent appeals to the women of America not to stop buying new clothes apparently need have no fear so far as Washington is concerned. The "economy in dress" clause, which a few ...
ST. PAUL, Minn., May 23.--It is understood that the Bonanza Farm of C.F. Kindred, near Valley City, Dakota, has been sold to Samuel K. Bester, of Geneva, N.Y., for $130,000.
BUFFALO, N.Y., Sept. 16.--All the department heads of the Lehigh Valley Railroad Company and its kindred companies were in the city to-day.
The New-York Star's "right, title, and interest" was sold at public auction by Sheriff Grant yesterday to satisfy judgments obtained against the corporation for rent, paper, supplies, and kindred claims.
PHILADELPHIA, Sept. 29.--The annual meeting of the American Forestry Congress will begin in this city Oct. 15 and continue four days. The sessions are to be held in Horticultural Hall, Broad-street, and Gov. James A. Beaver will preside. A number of interesting papers upon forestry and kindred subjects have been prepared, while through the liberality of citizens and organizations courtesies have been promised to those attending the Congress which will make the meeting most enjoyable.
The chasm has at last been crossed, and Standard Oil is formally declared by process of law to be illegally engaged in a conspiracy to control the price of illuminating oils and kindred products much used by the people of this country. This is the first formal declaration of the kind recorded. Trusts have been halted by the courts in other lines of their procedure.
The Governor of Heligoland is monarch of all he surveys, albeit what he surveys is not very much; but there is one matter in which he cannot but feel his inability to claim kindred with other rulers of men.
It is a source of satisfaction to see in your issue of March 31 (in the contribution of "E.M.") that the deep thought and pious feeling of Emily Bronte are receiving recognition. Matthew Arnold recognized a kindred spirit when he wrote of her as one.
ST. PAUL, Minn., April 20.--Four district Republican Conventions are called for this week, one in the Second District and three in the Fifth. In the latter there is a great deal of bad feeling, the legacy of the famous Congressional fight between Knute Nelson, and C.F. Kindred two years ago.
Is there anything in the life of the modern Presidential Executive per se which reacts toward bloodthirsty recreations? It is said that a driver of mules must necessarily be profane. Can it be that a President who "has Congress on his hands," not to mention other vexing and harassing matters, is thereby goaded into hare hunting and kindred amusements (?) of barbaric survival?
INDIANAPOLIS, Oct. 21.--The Supreme Lodge of the United Order of Honor to-day revoked the charter of Progressive Lodge, No. 59, of Jersey City, because of its failure to carry out the direct order of the Supreme Lodge in expelling John D. Harrington, who is now serving a sentence in the penitentiary for defrauding a kindred order.
--A man lodge  money, but no one knows it but himself and the bank. He can conceal it completely from the world, and from his kindred, too, for there is no limit to eccentricities; his kindred may suspect it, but when he is ...
Sweet is the communion of kindred souls. The darkness of partisanship is dispelled by two shining lights. "The greatest Mayor Chicago ever had" and "the best Mayor New York ever had" greet and praise one another.
NEW HAVEN, Conn., May 2. -- Bird S. Coler talked to Yale students in Lanson Lyceum to-night on Socialism and kindred subjects. He said in part:
Architects, real estate men, members of improvement and kindred associations with others interested in the welfare of New York City have been invited by the Fine Arts Federation to attend a meeting at the Fine Arts Building next Tuesday evening to discuss city planning in general and especially its influence on realty values.
The Schlaraffia Nova Yorkia, a social club, composed of German actors and journalists and other men of kindred pursuits, had a banquet last evening at Dilky's restaurant, on Third-avenue.
It is a military air which pervades the Great Pump Boom at Bath, England, recently refitted and opened with ceremonies and dedicated less to fashion than to the curing of the rheumatism and kindred ills contracted in the trenches.
Let us devote a little time and space to a consideration of porterhouse steak. The subject is worth serious consideration. Our friend who contributed a lively letter on this and kindred topics which was printed on this page of THE NEW YORK TIMES yesterday was mistaken on one or two points.
WILMINGTON, Del., July 27. -- The American Paper Bottle Company of Wilmington was chartered to-day at Dover. It purposes to manufacture paper bottles, boxes, mailing tubes, and kindred articles; capital, $200,000.
Under the auspices of the New Jersey-New York Real Estate Exchange, delegates representing eighteen Boards of Trade and kindred associations met in the exchange headquarters, Hudson Terminal Building, on Tuesday, May 11, and completed the organization of the New Jersey Development Federation.
Many historic churches which have contributed to the moral and civic welfare of New York City have passed out of existence, migrated to new fields or have merged with kindred ...
HARTFORD, Jan. 2 -- The Old-Age Pension Commission, in a report made public today, offers two bills to be submitted to the incoming Legislature and proposes drastic changes in the methods of caring for Connecticut's aged indigent and kindred problems.
May I be permitted to make just one suggestion in regard to THE REVIEW OF BOOKS AND ART for the new year? As a lover of books the paper is invaluable to me, with its excellent reviews of books giving glimpses of unattainable ones not otherwise to be had, adding to the enjoyment of those which are read, as well as its kindred topics treated.
At a meeting of representatives of the fruit, Grocery, Confectionery, Canned Goods, Produce,and kindred trades, held recently at the Mercantile Exchange, it was resolved to form an organization of the above-mentioned trades, ...
The arrival of the Gentlemen Cricketers of Ireland in Canada and subsequently in America is looked forward to with considerable pleasure by all lovers of cricket and other kindred sports.
The grand annual ball of the Mulligan Association and like social functions scheduled for this Fall and Winter in Brooklyn will not be graced by the presence of Justice Gaynor. Also, the Mulligan Association and kindred bodies will save postage and their feelings by not sending Mr. Gaynor wads of tickets with polite requests that he remit by return mail.
Around a throbbing theme Annie Nathan Meyer has written an unfortunately inept play in "Black Souls," which stopped at the Provincetown Playhouse last night and looked into the matter of the color line and kindred dark subjects. Its ineptness was the more unfortunate because Mrs. Meyer, setting her play in the heart of the conflict, had obviously been at pains to inscribe an honest record and to ask a number of significant questions.
IT will be remembered that William James's famous work on "The Varieties of Religious Experience" consisted of a course of Gifford lectures delivered at Edinburgh University. Many other valuable contributions to the literature of philosophy and kindred subjects owe their existence to the same series of prelections.
EVIDENTLY Boston is the chosen seat for the testing of plays about religious faith. After O'Neill's "Days Without End," which was a tragedy averted, follows Philip Barry's "The Joyous Season," which is a comedic treatment of a kindred theme.
SARATOGA, April 9. -- Saratoga voted today that "gamblers must go." It decided that the laws against gambling and kindred evils shall be rigidly enforced.
Ex-President ELIOT of Harvard writes to The Springfield Republican that the crossing of different races -- by this he does not mean, of course, the crossing of kindred races -- is "always and everywhere a bad thing." He says:
AUTOMOTIVE business training has been added as a new course at the Stewart Automobile School, 225 West Fifty-seventh Street. The subjects will deal with business management, flat rate systems, channels of distribution, service and other kindred topics.
PHILADELPHIA, April 16.--The Philadelphia and Reading Coal ana Iron Company and other kindred organizations, announce that at the col  lieries under their control work will be suspended during the last three days of next week and the week following.
Further testimony to the efficient methods of railroad administration in the United States is offered by indications in England that railway owners there are beginning to look toward alliance -- and it may end even in actual amalgamation -- of kindred systems, what has come to be known as the community of interest idea.
The further recovery of stocks in yesterday's session of the market was aided by several factors. The President's address to Congress on methods to deal with the high cost of living and kindred matters was the cause of rather general satisfaction. The manner in which Mr. Wilson handled the economic aspects of current conditions was the subject of ...
Sentiment in the financial community improved considerably last week following a veto of the tax and labor bills, which had been discounted marketwise. The firm undertone, evident in steel and kindred stocks, lifted prices for the fifth consecutive week.
The dispatch from Queen Victoria to President Cleveland is one of the most pleasant incidents associated with his marriage. It comes from a kind and motherly heart, recognizing the American people as kindred, and having an interest in all that concerns their welfare, Queen Victoria has on two tragic occasions sent her ...
The work of Delaware's Americanization Bureau in helping aliens to adapt themselves to American life has attracted much favorable attention during the last few years. Its report for the year 1923-1924 is of particular interest to all having to do with immigration, "Americanization" and kindred subjects.
WASHINGTON, Dec. 12. -- The National Board of Trade, which numbers among its members the principal Boards of Trade and kindred commercial bodies of the country, will meet here to-morrow to organize for its regular session, which will open Tuesday. A number of important matters will be brought up for consideration.
Representatives of the Real Estate Board of New York who attended the convention of the National Association of Real Estate Boards held at Chicago July 12 to 15 are enthusiastic over the convention, not only as a mere gathering of numbers but because of the beneficial results it will have for real estate and kindred interests.
The cause of the Ancient Order of United Workmen and kindred societies was championed last evening at the EighteenthStreet Methodist Episcopal Church by the Rev. George E. Strobridge.
SAN FRANCISCO, July 26 (AP). -- Governors attending the annual conference of State executives asked the Federal Government today "to pursue to the utmost" its vigorous prosecution of racketeers to the end that kidnapping and kindred crimes be suppressed.
Prof. A.S. Hardy begins a historical novel in the Atlantic for September which promises well. The stalwart Saxon Friedgis, a prisoner of war whom the Frankish conqueror has torn from his kindred and made the porter of a monastery at Maestricht, treats with little ceremony ...
IN these days of renewed patriotic emotions our national hymn and kindred songs have come in for far closer attention than they had been receiving in years of peace.
Many new leases for office, showroom and loft space in Manhattan were closed yesterday with firms dealing in men's and boys' clothing, furs, dresses and kindred apparel lines. The leasing, most of which was done in the midtown area, included contracts for a number of retail stores.
Steps toward bringing about an amalgamation of the Jewish Welfare Board and the National Council which looks after the Young Men's Hebrew Association and kindred activities were taken at the annual meeting of the Jewish Welfare Board yesterday afternoon at ...
BERLIN, Dec. 2.--Fresh impetus to the nationalistic movement, in Bavaria particularly, and kindred movements throughout Germany has been given by the note of the Ambassadors' Council, demanding a formal apology from Bavaria and levying penalties of 500,000 gold marks each on the Bavarian towns of Passau and Ingolstadt for attacks on allied officers.
BERLIN, Aug. 26. -- The lecture announcements for the Winter term at the University of Berlin, just published, are noteworthy -- apart from their omission of a number of "Non-Aryan" former faculty members -- for the extraordinary multiplication of lectures on race and kindred subjects.
Vice-President Lyttleton T. Garrettson presided at last night's meeting of the Young Men's Democratic Club, which was held chiefly to give the members a chance to discuss a resolution introduced by J. Bleecker Miller proposing to join hands with kindred associations, including ...
There are two sorts of fishermen, those who have no use for a fish in the water, and those others who lose interest in their catch when it is boated. Dr. HENRY VAN DYKE is dean of the latter class, and he has called a convention of himself and President JORDAN and others with aspirations for fellowship with kindred minds.
SHREVEPORT, La., Feb. 19.--Shreveport generally turned its thoughts from oil and kindred subjects today to affairs of the turf with the inauguration of its first race meeting at the remodeied Fair Grounds.
The interesting article by D. De Kremen in THE TIMES of Tuesday the 17th, on "The Smoke Nuisance," recalls an able paper upon the same or kindred topic of "Combustion," read by Paul J. Schlicht before the Franklin Institute of Philadelphia in September last.
The evening-up process of a Saturday were punctuated in yesterday's stock market session by fairly sharp advances of shipping and kindred issues and a number of industrial speciatties. Gains in these extended from 2 to 9 points, and while buying was quieter among the railroad shares, several scored advances ...
Prof. John R. Kirk, who was elected State Superintendent of Schools last Tuesday, has before him a great opportunity. He represents in himself, in his own training and experience, the latest educational order in Missouri. Having received the benefit of one of the State schools, the normal at Kirksville, he realizes the value of that and its kindred institutions to the scholarship of the State.
The above house was established in 1827, its founder. Mr. D. Wells, being the inventor of the now much used and improved routing machine, so serviceable to all interested in the kindred arts of printing and engraving. The firm now make and sell the best wood types, borders, , and at their factory in Paterson, N.J., turn...
TRENTON, N.J., June 19. -- The Valvoline Oil Company, to develop lands containing oil and kindred substances, was incorporated here to-day. The capital stock is $1,500,000. Incorporators: William Dixon Ellis, New York City: Pedric R. Boult. Liverpool, England; George A. Ellis, Brooklyn; William James Goulding, New York City; Elliott Greene, Jr., Jersey City.
BOSTON, Mass., Aug. 26. -- Prof. D.G. Lyon of Harvard has no faith in the claim made for the relics discovered by Seton-Karr, who says they are from the original Garden of Eden. His opinion may be fairly taken, perhaps, to represent those men whom a study of anthropology and kindred topics has made more or less familiar with relics of different ages and their significance.
The fluctuations of stocks here governed in yesterday's dealings largely by influences derived from internal developments of the week and from a rather scant supply of call money. With the failure of the steel strike practically discounted, considerable realizing among steel and kindred issues was a natural thing and there were indications of profit-taking on a generous scale among ....
LONDON. NORMALLY this is not a season of the year when our thoughts turn naturally to works on economics and kindred subjects. The pressure of the times however is compelling attention to publications of a very different class from the typical literature of Christmas "The Intelligent Man's Guide Through World Chaos" (Gollancz) a masterly volume by G.D.H Cole, is attracting far more readers than any other book in this field.
Science is supreme in American production, and the Americans have outrun us all in its application. They were the first to utilize electricity, not merely in the developponent of telegraphy and the kindred arts, but as a powerful ally in manufacture. In the welding of metals, for instance, it now plays an important part.
DENVER, Col., Sept. 25. -- The Union Pacific, Denver and Gulf Railway will Jan. 1 next take its place among Colorado lines as an independent system. The Reorganization Committee has called upon the holders of securities of the Gulf and kindred interests to deposit their securities with the Central Trust Company of New York.
Under highly professional dealings the stock market, excepting railroad issues, gained further ground yesterday. Business was much concentrated in automobile and kindred shares and a number of specialties which were depressed last week by what looked like extensive short selling. When buying in these departments slackened after the noon hour it was noted that the whole market became ...
The Michigan Horticultural Society having invited the American Pomological Society to hold its next meeting in Michigan, the twentieth session will be held in Grand Rapids, commencing Wednesday. Sept. 9, and continuing three days. All horticultural, pomological, agricultural, and kindred associations in the United ...
BERLIN, July 10.--Developments at Spa are causing great depression to all classes except the Anarchists and kindred elements which rejoice that the German delegates are compelled to sign a military agreement which doubtless greatly handicaps the Government in suppressing political risings, riots and unlawfulness.
"The Kindred of the Wild: A Book of Animal Life," by Prof. Charles G.D. Roberts, is to be brought out in May by L.C. Pape  Co. These publishers have now control of Prof. Roberts's entire works:
CHICAGO, March 26.--Representatives of 75 manufacturers of furniture and kindred goods held a private meeting at the Sherman House this afternoon to discuss questions to arise ...
David B. Hill is the same man to-day that he was 15 years ago, and under like or kindred circumstances his official conduct would be the same. All that he has had opportunity to demonstrate.
IN between running down to the Riviera and kindred Continental forays a man should hardly be willing to fiddle with a typewriter. But, writes Joshua Logan, the co-author and director of both "South Pacific" and "Mister Roberts," he's managed to get through three pages of his contemplated adaptation of Chekhov's "The Cherry Orchard."
WASHINGTON, Feb. 29. -- Miss Mathilde Townsend, daughter of the late Richard Townsend and Washington's great heiress and beauty, is experimenting along a new line to avert nervous prostration and its kindred ills so generally a part of each Washington season as to be taken as a matter of course.
BERNHARD BERENSON, as far back as the first edition of his "Venetian Painters" (and maybe before that), evinced great interest in not so much a factual, specific analogy between the Italian Renaissance and our own time, but rather the kindred feeling we are wont to experience in looking back
LOS ANGELES, May 1 -- While the aircraft industry is preoccupied at the moment with getting enough Government orders to maintain a quickly expandable nucleus, a kindred problem being explored collaterally is that of sufficient trained manpower to operate in a national emergency.
PADUCAH, Ky., May 2.--Another illustration of love's triumph over locksmiths and all kindred restraints occurred here last night. James Smith, a young tinner, of Paducah, ...
--When  you come home of an evening, unfit for severer work, take down a volume of these or of kindred books, and the past 150 years seem to become annihilated.
A mass meeting of the motor car trade and kindred organizations has been called by the Automobile Carnival Committee for to-morrow night at 8 o'clock in the rooms of the Automobile Club of America, West Fifty-fourth Street, near Broadway.
James W.Gerard, former Ambassador to Germany, has come out in support of the appeal being made for the horse by The Jockey Club, the National Federation of Horse Shows, the Hackney Association, and other kindred organizations throughout the country.
The hand organ did not resume work yesterday. "Sweet Violets," the story about Johnny and his gun, the "Boulanger March," and all their kindred will be kept hushed a day or two longer, but by Saturday many of Mayor Grant's 300 licensed grinders will be grinding out songs ...
ALBANY, April 11. -- The Assembly to-day advanced to third reading the compromise School bill, which consists of portions of the bills of the Committee of Seventy and the Bell ad Halpin bills. Six hearings had been given upon this and kindred measures, but in spite of this fact a determined effort was made to throw the bill back into committee, ostensibly for a hearing, but really to kill it.
BLUFF POINT, N.Y., July 25. -- Rain, rain, rain, has played havoc with golf this week, giving ping pong, bridge whist, and kindred indoor pastimes their first real innings.
Trustees seek instructions as to disposition of surplus income from fund for aiding seamstresses of Brattleboro, Vt
The Jewelers' Board of Trade, whose membership comprises nearly all the important firms in the diamond business, jewelry, and kindred trades throughout the country, gave out a statement yesterday predicting that there would be no fall in the price of diamonds, which dispatches from abroad had stated was likely owing to alleged differences between the De Beers and the Premier Diamond Mining Companies, which control 97 per cent. of the output.
L Arnaha proposes Pan-Amer trade development inst modeled after Export-Import Bank; importers and exporters believe cartel unfeasible; propose alternative 5-point solution
Bronx Bd of Trade repts Tax Dept survey shows net gain and no loss through exodus, 1939
PHILADELPHIA, April 28 -- A call issued by Joseph B. Buchanan of New-York, formerly, a prominent member of the Knights of Labor, brought representative trades unionists to-day to Woodman's Hall to consider a proposition to form a new national trade organization, which would absorb the Knights of Labor, the American Federation of Labor, and all kindred organizations.
The announcement made yesterday that Alfred Gwynne Vanderbilt was a member of a syndicate which had bought a tract of about 127 lots on Washington Heights from the Deaf and Dumb Asylum, came as a surprise to those who have associated the name of that family with nothing but railroads and kindred forms of investment.
DUBLIN, Dec. 11. -- Delegates representing County Councils, Borough Corporations, District Councils, branches of the United Irish League, and kindred bodies met today in national convention in the Dublin Rotunda in order to "recreate the Irish Party."
Marketing quota: Okla, Kan and Mo farmer groups organize to protest AAA penalty on excess crops; file suit, Okla City
Admission made to Trade Commission of offering bribes to employes and employes of competitors to spoil products of competitors
Julius Henry Cohen, Chairman of the Committee on the Unlawful Practice of the Law, yesterday reviewed the recent work of his committee and that of the kindred Committee on Professional Ethics of the New York County Lawyers' Association. In part he said:
WHATEVER else happens or does not happen in fashion, new hats keep coming into town all the time. Which  is really very nice: women have long known that the best cure for the blues, that tired feeling and kindred ills is to acquire a new and madly becoming hat.
PHILADELPHIA, April 30.--The star of the indoor track season was John Borican. Almost completely forgotten as Borican burned up the boards at the half-mile and kindred distances was another phenomenon, John Woodruff.
SPELLING bees, once a popular indoor sport, are coming back again. State commissions of education, Chautauquas, agricultural fairs and kindred bodies are  striving to bring back, and succeeding in it, too, the spelling bee, associated by dad and mother, grandfather and grandmother with the little red schoolhouse.
Degrees were presented to forty-four members of the graduating class of Lincoln University today. The Rev. Dr. John S. Bonnell, pastor of the Fifth Avenue Presbeterian Church, New York, warned them that they must face the challenge of Industrial despair, economic inequality and international conflict.
Further pricing of Eastern lines of ginghams and kindred fabrics for Spring took place here yesterday, when quotations on goods for delivery from November to March were sent to the trade by Smith. Hogg  Co. They showed an average advance of about a cent a yard over the prices last previously in effect.
The attempt of W.H.Secor and kindred Tammanyites to use Justice Wandell in their attempt to substantiate the assertion that there has been Republican colonization in the Eleventh Assembly District, among others, was a failure, yesterday.
International competition, including the Olympic Games, golf for the championship, in which leading English players were contenders; hydroplane racing for the British International Motor Boat Trophy, baseball, football, and many other kindred games engaged the attention of American sports followers during the year almost finished to probably a greater degree than ever before in the history of sport in this country.
Flower and gem  names are evidently given from time to time with direct reference to their significations. The following floral and kindred appellations have occurred in modern registers, most of them having appeared quite recently:
Sought by E S Alden who tells of his financial failure while compiling encyclopedia of Alden Family
NON-STOP DISTANCE: 3,284 mi, Gander, Nfld to Rome, 14 hrs, 14 mins, Pacific Overseas Airlines DC-4
Mr. SIMEON STRUNSKY, the laughing philosopher, has lately drawn an engaging picture of the new Utopia which is being imposed upon our unprepared generation by means of riders to the Food Stimulation bill and kindred processes.
FROM the other side comes word that Paul Vincent Car  roll's latest play-the one he calls "Kindred"-has been bought for Froadway by Edward Choate, Shubert executive and present house manager of the Morosco Theatre.
The writer was astonished to see, in a bookstore the other day, a large counter, and one of the most important ones, entirely given up to books on "Psychic Treatment," "Religion and Medicine," "Mind and Matter," "Mental Healings," "The Training of the Will," and kindred topics.
Dr. Perry M. Lichtenstein, resident physician at the Tombs, testifying yesterday before a Commission in Lunacy sitting to determine the condition of Philip Murtha, 28, of 541 West 141st Street, said that alcohol is causing more insanity since prohibition went into effest than was caused by shell shock and kindred influences during the World War.
Variety Artists' Fed of Eng denies rept of embargo on foreign acts and players was contemplated
PALM BEACH.--If half the sports events scheduled for Palm Beach this Winter take place society wintering here  will be well occupied either as active contestants or spectators; for the measure is full to running over with golf and tennis matches, polo tournaments, boxing bouts and all kindred amusements designed to fill the daytime hours for the next three months.
Sec Lansing appeals to all to go to places of worship on July 28 and offer sympathy to Serbia
ENGLISH CRIME. -- Burglary nd kindred offenses show an increase during twenty years of 24 per cent., but this is in part explained by a change in the police classification by which various offenses which used to be entered as larcenies are now entered as burglaries. In all the smaller offenses there has been a "continuous and marked abatement.
The reply of the Hon. Martin T. McMahon to Rudyard Kipling, in your issue of Feb. 22, is very forcibly and eloquently expressed; but, while having considerable respect for his knowledge of the law and kindred subjects, we must confess to considerable surprise at some of the statements he made in that poetic epistle.
The Commissioners on revision of the excise laws unanimously decided at their meeting in the Bible House yesterday morning to incorporate in the bill they are to hand to the coming Legislature a provision that all clubs and kindred organizations wherein liquor is sold shall be required to take out a license.
Repricing of leading lines of prints and percales on lower bases has closely followed the announcement of the sharp reductions made in ginghams and kindred woven colored cottons. Prominent sellers will announce today quotations based on 11 cents for light-ground...
THE theatre's glamour is, of course, still enduring, as it has always been, and astir with the lingering excitement of cen  turies of first nights. Though it is an elusive charm, it has, however, generally come down in certain last analyses to the fragrant astringence of grease paint, the whispered tatters of dressing-room gossip and kindred minor but enticing subtleties.
NOW about this matter called theatrical booking, it is still something that starts in an office building off Broadway, travels underground to theatres in Wichita, Kan., and kindred outposts ...
Jean Baptiste Dumas, whose death is announced in a dispatch from Paris, was one of the most distinguished chemists of France, the incumbent at different times of many offices of trust, and a prolific writer and lecturer on chemical and kindred subjects. M. Dumas was born on July 14, 1800, at Alais, in the Department of ...
The course of the stock market was again upward yesterday for the list as a whole, but those motor shares and kindred issues which were making sensational gains last week gave evidence that liquidation was still in force among many of them. The railroad, oil and equipment issues were again the centre of speculative interest, with more moderate interest in the copper stocks.
ALBANY, N.Y., April 26. -- Many of the safeguards with which the dwellings of the poor in the large cities have been surrounded as a result of the work done by the Tenement House Commission and other kindred bodies would be rendered ineffective if a bill introduced by Senator Davis of Buffalo were to become law.
WELLINGTON, N.Z., April 24. -- A New Zealand newspaper recently contained an account of an interview obtained last Winter by Ernest A. Belcher with ex-President Theodore Roosevelt at Oyster Bay in which the American stated his views with regard to Japan, the Philippines, the "White Australia" policy, and other kindred subjects with characteristic bluntness and vigor.
Manhattan's football squad arrived back in New York at noon yesterday from its 3,000-mile round trip to Tulsa, Okla., where on Saturday the Jaspers closed their season with a scoreless tie against the powerful University of Tulsa eleven.
Products supplied to the Federal Government by New York manufacturers and dealers during February under the Walsh-Healy Public Contracts Act had a total value of $27,564,321. This was announced yesterday by Frank J. Muench, acting regional director for New York and New Jersey of the Wage and Hour and Public Contracts Division, United States Department of Labor.
Schools adopt merchant marine ships; Brit Ship Adoption Soc formed to help children and seamen exchange lrs
MAN is a very unreasonable being. He is always adjuring woman to let business, politics, and such things alone, and pay attention to matrimony and kindred affairs which properly come within her sphere. Yet she can't even get into a coal hole to see a wedding without his beginning to criticise her.
Robert Murray Smith, retired investment broker, died yesterday at his home here after an illness of one week. He was 54 years old. Born in Troy, N. Y., Mr. Smith was the son of Alexander and Ellen Roberts Smith. He had been a partner for twenty years in the firm of Aldred  Co., 40 Wall Street, New York. He retired in 1930.
NORTH CREEK, N.Y.-- With a near record breaking crowd of more than 2,000 skiers coming into this  little Adirondack Mountain village last week-end, slopes and trails were pulverized into their best condition this Winter. From now until late March or April skiing and its kindred Winter sports will be at their best.
San Diego race won by Mrs L Foy; show opens; Mrs H McBride wins race for 65-hp craft
Buying of Apparel and kindred lines here during the past week plainly reflected the transitional state throgh which the market is passing. Of women's garments, particularly, was this true. There was some buying of lines designed ...
hon by Harvard Univ Hasty Pudding Club; is 1st woman in 101 yrs asked to sing in show; refuses
MANY years ago, when I started to collect books on magic and kindred subjects, I frequented a second-hand book store on Chambers Street, where, on a low and inconspicuous shelf devoted to such books, I came upon a copy of a book on ...
A number of our correspondents have taken up the discussion of the present agitation in England, in which ultimate disestablishment of the Church is indirectly involved. Their letters show that the interest in this subject in this country is not merely that of impartial observers watching the development among a kindred people of a principle to which we are ourselves so habituated that it seems almost an inherent condition of our social constitution.
BOSTON, May 8. -- Mr. Charles G. D. Roberts's "The Kindred of the Wild," will be ready next Thursday. It resembles "Earth's Enigmas" rather than "The Heart of the Ancient Wood," and like both of them, it does not imitate Mr. Kipling, Messrs. L.C. Page  Co., Mr. Roberts's present publishers, also announce "The Best of Stevenson" for issue this month, and "The Best of Poe," for August.
A rice list covering percales, prints and kindred fabrics for delivery during July, _august and September vas issued yesterday by M. C. D. Borden  Sons, Inc. Vith the exception of American and Rumson cambrids, both of which were 'reduced half a cent a yard, the new list snows no change from the last previous one.
THE inventive genius of bridge players seems to be nearly unlimited. Every year brings forth a crop of bridge gadgets -- mechanical dealing machines, devices that keep score and add up the total points scored at the same time, chips for scoring designed to replace the score pad and pencil, and other articles of kindred nature.
In reading "The Marriage of William Ashe" multitudinous questions arise as crystallized sands of black, green, yellow and red. They arrange themselves in Ms. Ward's kaleidoscope as disease, heredity, pre-natal influence, education, original sin, biology, and kindred subjects in the determination of cause and effect.
Demand for Edison radios causes new W Orange, N J, record plant to be devoted to making receiving sets
Feature article by C C Hathaway on studies by Dr A MacDohald proposed in resolution offered by Sen Copeland and Repr Kindred
rules against use by Eastern mfrs and dealers of well-known names, symbols and brands on sets and equipment
If dynam  ite and kindred compounds can be safely used for artillery purposes--and there seem to be no insurmountable obstacles in the way--artillery as at present known will be swept out of existence, and a new system...
VIENNA, Nov. 12. -- The lighter side of life which the Viennese know so well and appreciate, submerged politics and its kindred subjects in more interesting things this week. The same amusement with which citizens before the war read or listened to accounts of the previous night's escapades of archdukes and others of the nobility and tolerantly shook their heads has been obtained from various editions of the newspapers during the week.
Natl Lumber Mfrs' Assn repts forest products group dropped to 5th place in industries as classified by U S Census Bur rept for 1931
To the Editor of the New-York Times: The American community of New-York and Boston have paid to the memory of my brave countryman, General HAVELOCK, such a tribute of respect and admiration, as could only have emanated from high-minded and generous natures of kindred spirits and kindred blood.
Modern sales promotion campaigns, some off which are carried on by individual manufacturers and others by cooperative efforts of makers of kindred though competing merchandise, have one of two primary objects behind their inception.
The New York Society of Sons of the Revolution and representatives of kindred societies attended special services yesterday afternoon in the First Presbyterian Church, held in commemoration of the one hundred and sixty-seventh anniversary of the birth of George Washington. It was the ninth annual service of the society.
WASHINGTON. Feb. 27. -- President Roosevelt's commission on naval reorganization, whose final report went to Congress to-day, outlines a new departmental system. President Roosevelt, in transmitting the report, declares the plan is sound and conservative and in full accord with American policy, as it recognizes the complete supremacy of the civil power as regards the military, and also cares for the manufacturing side of naval administration.
If all the numerous books that have been printed in this country of late dealing with "theosophy" and its kindred subjects were plainly labeled on their covers, "This way madness lies," they would probably have just as ...
In all estimates of the life work of John Ruskin particular emphasis must be laid upon a side of his character perhaps not generally recognized -- his great influence for good as regards the value and importance of books and reading, which was not at all his life work, which lay in the direction of art, architecture, and kindred subjects.
During the morning dealings yesterday firmness prevailed on the Stock Exchange under leadership of the oils, steels, motors and other active industrials. While these groups were advancing, however, professional operators for the fall appeared to be centring a concerted attack against the food stocks and kindred shares, including Ward Baking, Fleischmann and other specialties which have been in the limelight of late.
BOSTON, March 5. -- A morning paper says a syndicate of Englishmen is negotiating for the purchase of the four firms in the United States now controlling the manufacture of soda-water and beer apparatus and the manufacture of extracts, syrups, and everything pertaining to the production of soda water and kindred beverages.
Only dyed-in-the-wool baseball cranks and persons in search of pneumonia, grip, and kindred ailments ventured to the Polo Grounds yesterday to witness the game between the New-Yorks and a team of the New-York Athletic Club. The same can be said of the game at Eastern Park in Brooklyn, in which Manager Foutz's men faced the Paterson team.
Partial identification made by Repr Updike and Capt L Cukela, at meeting of House Veterans Com
attends conference of Jews in Baltimore; urges special conference to discuss problems of European situation; will leave for Poland on Ja 10
Textiles and apparel valued at $39,018,873 constituted the principal commodities furnished for the Federal Government by New York manufacturers and dealers during April under the Walsh-Healey Public Contracts Act, it was announced yesterday.
Representatives of the publishing, printing stationery, book, paper, and kindred trades organized a Cleveland and Thurman and Tariff Reform Club at Leavitt's auction rooms, Broadway and Tenth-street, yesterday.
The book collector's lot is not always a happy one. He is one of the most misunderstood of mortals. Among his intimates and acquaintances he finds few kindred souls to appreciate his passion for volumes that are precious because of their rarity, beauty, or associations. His wife may continually scoff at his avocation. She may sigh when she thinks of the "things" she could buy with the money that goes to auctioneers and dealers.
National Council of the Young Men's Hebrew and Kindred Assocs. submits charges of race discrimination against Maj. P. Loeser, affidavit of Capt. C. Hartley tells of rejection of Jews
ALBANY, Feb. 8.--The criminal in his various relations to society, and not crime itself, should be the objective of every intelligent study of our prison system and the kindred problems of parole and probation, according to Lieut. Gov. Lehman, who has devoted much thought to the problem which now is one of the outstanding topics at the Capitol.
Where Fibre Garments Gain. One of the reasons advanced yesterday for the slump reported in real silk knitted garments in certain quarters of the trade, especially in novelty sweaters and kindred merchandise, was that the greater skill used in the production of fibre silk articles now is bringing out things made of this material that compare very favorably with the real silk goods at a smaller cost to the consumer.
BALTIMORE, April 24.--Lady Astor, with two Baltimore friends, spent the greater part of today shopping. She visited many stores and made numerous purchases. For the time being she put aside the serious side of life, forgot about prohibition, Llyod George, woman's rights and kindred subjects, and seemed to enjoy looking over the Spring styles.
The unrest of wage earners, a restlessness that characterizes all fields of industry, but is more marked among unskilled than skilled workers, was indicated yesterday in the results of a survey just completed by the Industrial Bureau of the Merchants' Association.
Metropolitan Museum of Art, 11 A. M. "Pompeii: Rome's Hellenistic Heritage," Stuart M. Shaw. American Society for Race Tolerance "Inter-Racial Luncheon of One Thousand," Hotel Commodore, 12:30 P. M. Speakers: Bishop Francis J. McConnell, Representatives Bruce Barton, Joseph A. Gavagan, Samuel Dickstein and Emmanuel Celler, Mrs. Maria McLeod Bathune, Walter White, Professor Bernard D. N. Grebanier, Mrs. Dorothy Greiner.
The sale of the Tennessee Electric Power Company to TVA, which is now expected to be completed this week, should bring to a close a much troubled chapter in the history of Government-utility relations.
SOMETHING very like homelessness last week came to the little colony of artists, newspaper men, and kindred bohemlans, who, despite changing conditions, the northern movement of the city's centre, have clung tenaciously to the old haunts near where the Washington Arch rears its graceful outline.
DIABOLO, the new old game which has recently become such a craze in France, has now spun its way to these shores and dealers predict that it will attain popularity with a ping pong rush and retain it with the tenacity which attaches to its kindred game of tennis.
Maurice B. Flynn and his present political "chums" who think that it is only a question of time when they will own the city of New-York, are greatly encouraged at the outlook in Albany for the passage of the notorious Bruns bill and kindred measures conferring extraordinary powers upon the deputy head of the Public Works Department, Rollin Multitudinous Squire.
A meeting of manufacturers, jobbers, and others in this city interested in the project of the Department of Commerce in sending a representative to South...
The Women's Republican Committee of One Hundred of which Mrs. Mary Hatch Willard is Chairman, will take an active part in the Mayoralty campaign ...
Protest was made yesterday to the Riverside Drive and Parkway Commission by the Washington Heights Taxpayers' Association and other kindred bodies against the $1,500,000 assessment upon property holders in the northwestern part of the city to pay for the extension of Riverside Drive north from 135th Street.
NEW-BRUNSWICK, N.J., Oct. 11.--The workingmen of the city are very indignant over the action of some of the most enthusiastic Republican manufacturers, who have been paying their men in envelopes on which are printed the stock warnings against free trade and kindred evils.
N Y and 9 other States declare embargoes on live stock and agricultural products from Tex
To the Editor of the New-York Times: PATRICK HERNAN, who was shot the other night by Police Officer BURKE, was a member of the Mark Lanigan Association, one of the most effective Tammany Hall organizations, and was identified with the roughs of the City. When he was killed he was associated with the brother of "Reddy the Blacksmith," and kindred people.
Christmas demand materialized in the hardware markets of the country during the past week and there is fresh buying of products that enter into holiday shopping, according to Hardware Age.
Stevenson testifies on radical activities of Socialists, I W W, and kindred movements; says that 250 newspapers supported radical socialism; pacifists under scrutiny, including many prominent univ professors
W F Brunner leaves West End Dem Club of Rockaway Park as it backs him for Boro Pres
Census Bur rept on mfg, printing and publishing industries for 1931, including employment, wages and value of finished product, compared with 1929
Without any exception, commercial reports from important trade centres over the country were this week cheerful, with news of increased activity and higher expectations among business men. The dry goods trade at wholesale seems to be leading the improvement, but the kindred line of men's clothing, and the shoe and leather trades seem to be keeping close up with it.
D Guggenheim School of Aeronautics, N Y U, to open towing ba??? ???sting flying boat hulls, seaplane floats, etc
Manufacturing plants of the nation closed the third quarter of the year with operations at the highest rate ever recorded by American industry in general, based on the consumption of electrical energy. Reports...
The following curious story of hypnotism was related by a well-known citizen of Washington, who was recently in Paris. He has traveled extensively, and devotes much time in study of occultism and kindred subjects. He says:
The Gerry society received not many days ago a letter from William Harkins, a negro whitewasher, of Washington, saying that his ten-year-old son was lost in New YorK. Agent William J. Fogarty found the boy yesterday at 225 West Thirtieth Street. His name is Frank Harkins, and he has been living in the back yard at that address for some time.
Dartmouth's hockey team opened its season tonight by defeating the Blueway Hockey Club of Springfield, 9 to 2, in a game featured by the work of the Green defense men, Jim Feeley and Mal Cross. Feeley scored three Dartmouth goals and teamed with Cross to stop the Springfield attack repeatedly.
THERE has become evident of late among our philosophers,  our sociologists and our economists a tendency to address themselves, not to the  average man, but to the strictly limited group of kindred specialists.
Greenville County, S. C., announced yesterday that it would receive on March 23 bids on $1,500,000 of hospital bonds dated Nov. 15, 1947, and due on Nov. 15, 1948 to 1967.
Rabbi J Krauskipf says poor not calmed by gifts of libraries or univs, ser, B'nai Judah Temple, Kansas City
It seems to be the fashion now to preach the gospel that book collecting can only be indulged in by men of large incomes. Granted that this is the case if one wishes to collect Mazarine Bibles, first folios incupabula, early Americana, and kindred works, yet is it not quite possible for people of very moderate means to gather together an interesting and useful little library of the best editions?
If the thousands of readers of THE TIMES Magazine and Book Review would each week or month send their own copies of the magazines to key individuals (politicians, editors, leaders of industry, labor, education) in Italy, France, Germany, Austria, Scandinavia, Korea, China and Latin America, they would be using the most powerful of all forces to counteract Communist lies and be far more effective than official government propaganda.
ST. LOUIS, March 22. -- Dust storms in the West and floods in the South have had serious adverse effects upon the farm situation in the Eighth Federal Reserve District in the last week. New wheat in many places has been destroyed by dust. Farms which have escaped both disasters are reported to be in thriving condition, however, and as a whole, the agricultural situation is good.
ST. PAUL, Minn., April 25.--The Republican Convention of the First Congressional District of Minnesota was held at Winona to-day.
" I have seen dozens of hallowed "college traditions formed and shat "tered," ex-President DWIGHT of Yale used to tell the freshmen; "for "with you four years are as a thou "sand years." The Faculty Committee of Student Organizations at Barnard has prohibited for three years to come the election of new members to the young women's secret societies.
ST. LOUIS, Nov. 23. -- General business in the Eighth Federal Reserve District is running 20 per cent ahead of last year. Gains are particularly noticeable in lumber, sales of stoves and, recently, automobile sales.
A meeting of the General Committee of the Independents was held last evening in Lyric Hall, on Sixth-avenue. The Chairman, Henry C. Robinson, presided. A long series of resolutions, referring to the action and constitution of the late Republican Convention at Rochester and kindred matters, was...
The McKinley papers continue to mislead their readers concerning the consumption of tin, the metal, in this country, the effect of the now tariff upon the production of the metal, and other kindred subjects. Their purpose is to make their readers believe that there can be no market for the metal here except in tin-plate factories.
The only hope for a world besieged by greed and war is rule by a coalition of the world's creative minds, in the opinion of Paul Vincent Carroll, peppery Irish author of the plays "Shadow and Substance" and "The White Steed," who arrived last night on the United States liner Washington.
A CASE OF REAL DISTRESS.--We tender our heartfelt sympathies t the Evening Post, and kindred journals, which have been rejoicing In the prospect of a woman's execution. Mrs. HARTUNG is not to be hung to-morrow. The vision with which these Journalists have been solacing their souls, fades away into the uncertain future.
WILKESBARRE, Penn., Jan. 20. New developments are occurring daily regarding the coal miners' rupture with the operators. In a long interview with John Siney, C. Ben Johnson, editor of the Workingman, the organ of the Miners' Union, and a number of kindred spirits to-day, it was learned that they are about to make a thorough tour of the Wilkesbarre, Lehigh, and Scranton regions, in the ...
Natl Organization of Masters, Mates and Pilots of Amer bars from affiliation Communists, Nazis, Fascists or members of groups such as German-Amer Bund
WASHINGTON, Aug. 28.--The dollar volume of 1,620 manufacturers during July increased 12.8 per cent over July of last year, but fell 7.6 per cent behind June, 1939,...
ST. PAUL, Jan. 20.--In the joint Legislative convention to-day the roll was called for the tenth joint ballot with the result that Windom fell to 48. The changes were: Billson from Kindred to Davis, Gotzian and Merriam to Cole, Mortenson from Wilson to Cole, Sampson from Dunnel to Hubbard.
Every Ukrainian colony in the United States, celebrated the Ukrainian national hoilday on Tuesday, March 9. It was the birthday of the great Ukrainian po A-patriot, Taras Shevchenko, whose ...
Metropolitan Museum of Art, "Painting in Germany, England and France," Edith R. Abbot, 11 A. M.; "Gothic and Renaissance Furniture," Alfred Busselle Jr., 2 P. M.; "Roman Imperial Portraits," Stuart M. Shaw, 2 P. M.; "The Pottery Maker; The Pilgrims," Yale Photoplay, motion pictures, 2:30 P. M.
COUNTRY life, with all of its attendant joys and possibilities, makes a powerful appeal to the city dweller at this season of the year. If one may judge from the ever increasing number of books written and published on trees, plant life, gardening, and kindred subjects, it would seem that the call to the woods and the fields is being answered more generously every year.*
Many pastors will preach today on "The Cause and Cure of War" and kindred topics, owing to the approach of the reopening of the Disarmament Conference in Geneva. Others will devote their sermons to a movement for "A Spiritual Recovery Act."
CORAL GABLES, Fla., Dec. 15. -- Paradisical, 4-year-old filly carrying the I.J. Collins silks, turned in a game performance to capture the Coconut Grove Purse before a good-sized crowd today at Tropical Park. The bay daughter of In Memoriam, a Churchill Downs handicap winner in her most recent endeavor, needed one of George Seabo's most powerful rides to squeeze home by a nose.
Amer Bar Assn com testifies against Hobbs bill to circumvent Supreme Ct ruling on prompt arraignment of persons arrested in Fed criminal prosecutions, House com
An early lead enabled the Kershaft Stable's Captain Argo to score an easy five-length victory in the featured Roundtree Purse at Empire City yesterday. William B. Miller's Mad Beth was second, with the fast-closing Scotch Gold in third place.
Even those Wets who were, as the phrase goes, "grilled" by the Senate lobby committee, must agree, after reading of the first day of inquiry into Dry campaign financing, ...
Holy See limits clerical deputies in natl assembly due to conflict between Fathers Hlinka and Juriga
Lr from T F Woodlock on clerical "manifesto" printed in The Nation and which he says is forgery
PRAGUE, Oct. 29 (Reuters) -- Dr. Frantisek Onderek, Apostolic Administrator of Ceske Tesin, reported in some newspapers to have approved the Government's new church laws, issued a statement today supporting the Roman Catholic hierarchy.
We do not wish to toe too exacting toward a man of such avowedly good intentions as the Rev. Dr. RAINSFORD. A professional "idealist" probably feels himself entitled to indulgence in departure from the conventions prevailing among men of lower aspirations and more pressing if not more practical aims.
Tokyo Apostolic Delegate notifies Vatican of Nagoya, Japan, camp visit; repts conf with reprs of Amers, Brit and Canadians held there
MADRID, Aug. 5 -- Continuing to rush troops to San Sebastian to cope with the uprising which the Government fears may grow out of the holding there on Sunday of the interdicted demonstration, and now officially abandoned clerical forces in protest against the Government's stand in its dispute with the Vatican, Premier Canalejas also issued today a statement outlining his policy in the premises.
The personal attack on Mgr. MERRY DEL VAL is the culmination of an anti-clerical campaign which has been going on in Italy itself for weeks, and even months. This campaign was founded upon incidents either entirely invented or grossly exaggerated by the "yellow" Socialist press in Italy.
WASHINGTON, Dec. 6--The government lost several hundred thousand dollars of tariff duties on Cuban sugar through a clerical mishap, it was learned today at the Treasury.
Archbishop Philip and Fathers Stefanovsky, Pokroysky, Azimov, and Mapledysha of Astrakhan arrested by secret police on charge of counter revolutionary preachings in Orthodox churches
A POPULAR Bishop of the Episcopal Church in the Far West staid a few days with a ranchman. When the Bishop left his host shook him warmly by the hand and said: "Bishop, we all like you out here; you are not stuck up, and you are no blooming aristocrat. We like you because you are so darned common and no gentleman.
Abp Griffin opposes artificial insemination of humans; cites R C Ch ban; holds operation constitutes adultery
Every mile saved on automobile usage means that more gasoline and rubber is available for our boys at the fronts.
A clerical impostor has been going around this city and Brooklyn peddling Catholic Prayer Books, and representing himself as the Rev. James J. McGuire, a suspended priest of the diocese of Hartford. Only two priests have been suspended in the Hartford diocese during the last five years, and neither of these bore the name of McGuire.
Here is an instance of unconventional methods of conducting the services. Stained glass windows were unknown in his church, and from the reading desk could be seen the green fields stretching away to the rectory gates. And so one morning, instead of beginning the service as usual, he announced quite simply:
There have been  many preachers whose pulpit jokes are the only remembered portions of their harangues Olivier Maillard, preaching of the souls in purgatory, said that when they hear the chink of money given for their benefit, "tin, tin, tin," they burst out ....
NEWCASTLE, Ontario, Aug. 17.--The American clerical cycling party arrived here this afternoon from Toronto en route to Kingston, some of them stopping here and the rest pushing on to Port Hope and Cobourg, intending to do the 200 miles from Cobourg to Kingston to-morrow. Others will start on Wednesday, and the rest will take two days to accomplish the distance.
BELLEVILLE, Ontario, Aug. 18.--The first division of the clerical bicyclists has arrived here. The tour has been shortened, and the visitors will not remain here over Sunday, as they had intended. The whole company will pass through in detached parties during the week.
The news that a hundred Italian priests have held a meeting in Ancona in order to organize a strike in case their demand for increased pay should not be granted is rather startling.
MEMPHIS, Tenn., Dec. 30.--On the 7th of last August the Rev. George W. Hinkle, Rector of St. Luke's Episcopal Church at Jackson, Tenn., was shot at and driven out of that town by George H. Newman, a railroad engineer, who ...
Czech news agency repts high ch official, Dr F Onderik, issued statement approving ch law draft
It is high time that something were done to put an end to the violence of the clerical classes. The riot which took place in a church in Goshen last Sunday ought to awaken a spirit of public indignation sufficiently stern and strong to compel clergymen to keep the peace.
To avoid the annoyance of interviews with his tailor, the Bishop of St. David's old suits, were sent to London as pattern's, the time of renewal being left to the discretion of his servant.
Whist was former  ly a well-known clerical amusement. Good Bishop Bathurst, of Norwich, always had his nightly rubber. So in the last years of his life did Keble, the author of ...
The Congregational Clerical Union held its regular fortnightly meeting yesterday morning at the Bible House.
GALVESTON, Texas, Sept. 21.--The bids for the construction of the Government jetty under the new Government appropriation of $500,000 were  opened yesterday by Major Ernst, engineer in
Inge says it is the most liberal; H Rose says youth turns from worship, at Modernist Churchmen's Conf
It is well known to all Free Thinkers that the clergy and ministers of all Protestant sects are criminals of the most atrocious character. No cautious Free Thinker ever goes to bed without barricading every door and window in order to keep out midnight ministers, and without arming himself to ...
--The following  case was related to me by a Bishop of the Church of England. There was a man who had officiated as a clergyman in a large town for about fifteen years.
Few persons in this age of the world are so diligent in pursuit of the martyr's crown as clergymen of tender years and advanced ritualistic views and practices. And few ...
SAN FRANCISCO, Nov. 17.--Thomas J. Clunie (Dem.) is probably elected to Congress in the Fifth District, though up to last night all the papers and politicians conceded the election ...
There is a church in a large Southern city which has advertised for a Rector. The advertisement sets forth that "the church is very eligibly situated in a pleasant and healthy part of the city," and that "the parish is a large one."
The members of the New-York Clerical Relief Fund Association held their eleventh annual meeting in the basement of St. Agnes ...
LONDON, Ontario, Aug. 10.--The American clerical bycicle tourists left this afternoon for Exeter, where the night will be passed. Tomorrow they are due in Goderich, and will be tendered a reception in the Presbyterian church.
BALTIMORE, April 29.--The Rev. A.M. Morrison stole a horse and buggy in this city on April 5 and a few days ago was arrested in Brockton, Mass. He returned to Baltimore on Wednesday in charge of a detective and was put on trial to-day. Conviction followed and he was sentenced to seven years in the penitentiary with hard labor.
All of our important religious bodies, with the exception of the Cumberland Presbyterians and Mr. FROTHINGHAM'S newest Church, have made up their annual slipper reports nearly ten days earlier than usual.
Here is a pretty clerical quarrel, the secret history of which would be curious. Some days ago M. de Morillet, Mayor of Saint Germain, a gentleman who has good right to the nobiliary particle " de," and who moreover, is an eminent scientific man, dismissed a beadle for not taking off his hat to a civil funeral. Not
At a meeting of the New-York Clerical Relief Fund Association in the basement of St. Ann's Parochial School, in East Eleventh-street, yesterday morning, the following report was ...
Clerical union (Christian Trade Unions of Germany) holds convention at Frankfort-on-Main; repts membership of 763,843; aims for social legislation
There will be no little exultation among the French Clericals if the Republican Cabinet goes to pieces in attempting to deal with the unauthorized congregations.
RC Congregation of Holy Office warns Rome satiric wkly Don Basilio staff of ex-communication for anti-clerical articles and cartoons; bans reading; wkly reptd financed by Socialists
NEW-LONDON, Conn., April 2.--The Rev. William A.T. Smith, who claims to be an African missionary soliciting money for a home for aged women in Senegambia, was arrested to-day, charged with being an impostor.
Interesting  illustrations of country clerical life may be seen in the recently published autobiography of Sir Archibald Alison.
Amer Mgt Assn survey on mgt contracts with office workers unions; repts 1 out of 8 clerical workers is unionized
Morgan's Louisiana & Texas R. R. & S. S. Co. protest against clerical error upheld by Board of Appraisers
Ex-Judge W.H. Van Cott appeared before Judge Dykman, holding a Special Term of the Supreme Court, at White Plains, yesterday, and made a motion for alimony and counsel fees in a suit for divorce, in which he appeared as counsel for the defendant.
A tall man with a high forehead and shabby genteel in attire was brought before Justice Kilbreth, in the Tombs Court, yesterday, by Detectives Moran and Brennan, of the Fourteenth Precinct, charged with being a hotel thief. The prisoner claimed to be the Rev. Isaac J. Stine, an itinerant Methodist preacher of Leavenworth, ...
For the "receipt of custom" alone, 5,223 clerks, collectors, and other officials were required in 1881-2, at an expense to the State of  1,000,000 for salaries, , and for the collection of the inland revenue (excise, ) 5,965 ...
WASHINGTON, Feb. 1.--Senators Dolph and Van Wyck as a sub-committee of the Senate Committee on Public Lands have been investigating certain irregularities in the issue of what is known as the Israel Dodge land scrip. The history of the transaction as they find it is as follows:
LAKE SUCCESS, April 22 -- The United Nations Ad Hoc Political Committee adopted today by a vote of 34 to 6 a Bolivian resolution noting with deep concern accusations that Hungary and Bulgaria had violated human rights in the recent religious trials.
This work is the minute record of the inner life of a man who was gifted, cultivated, and sick. The complaints and frettings of disease are usually considered unworthy of preservation. At first sight it seems hardly worth the ...
Montreal Diocesan Theol Coll Alumni Assn urges pooling of clerical stipends and abolition of competitive living
Birds of paradise, protection of, discussed by Budget Committee, Clericals plead for resumption of hunting privileges in German New Guinea
When  making the entries in the parish registers, I never let the formula "of full age" suffice, and my inquiries under this head cause, I fear, many a slight subterfuge.
GEORGE MIKAN didn't look very comfortable. In fact, George Mikan wasn't very comfortable. He was stretched out in bed  in his hotel room yesterday, his feet reaching the baseboard and his back curled up at an odd angle. Ordinary beds just don't fit this 6-foot 9inch center of the De Paul basketball team.
VATICAN CITY, July 6 -- One of the most baffling mysteries of the war -- Who bombed the Vatican last winter? -- can now be partly cleared up. It will be recalled that Vatican authorities always refused to comment on the bombing, although they immediately made a thorough investigation, and that refusal still stands.
DUBLIN, April 20 (AP). -- As much as they would like to see some Irishman get the credit, authorities here declared today that Columbus's claim to fame by discovering America still stood.
UN Assembly backs move to probe Prot mins trial under peace treaty machinery; case put on '49 session agenda
Clerical Propaganda (The) in; The Committee on Pilgrimages of Miracles; Working Classes' Church Congress; M. De Mun's Speech
PARIS, Jan. 4. -- As a result of the charges of scandal and graft in connection with the liquidation of the property of religious orders in France, which have been going the rounds of the clerical reactionary press, a parliamentary commission has been created to conduct detailed investigation.
The great moderation which the Liberal Cabinet in Belgium showed in all its negotiations with the Papal Court, and the spirit of conciliation and confidence which pervaded all the Pope's communications to the Belgian Government, led people to believe that the ...
What the precise use may be of archidiaconal visitations I do not pretend to know, but the course adopted by the Archdeacon of Cornwall in his recent visitation would certainly seem to show that some of these functionaries ...
FERA reveals $300,000,000 program for educ, professional and clerical persons including theatrical, artistic and other specialized groups
Rev C H C Lamb held, Salisbury, Eng; blames 2d marriage on amnesia caused by war experiences
Greece protests to Turkish Minister that proposed barring of ecclesiastical clothing would compel priests to leave Turkey
VIENNA, March 25 -- The spirit of retrogression and intellectual oppression is hovering over this unhappy and restless country. Three years have passed wellnigh without any progress in legislation or administration. During these years Austria has had six ministries. and three budgets have never been passed by Parliament.
Representatives of two maritime unions protested here yesterday against dismissals by ship operators of pursers and purser-pharmacist mates.
Rev E H S Chandler, World Council of Chs Amer sec repr, arrives in London to conf on aid
So far as occupational classifications are concerned, substantial changes are becoming apparent in the growing number of immigrants to this country, according to an analysis reported yesterday by the National Industrial Conference Board.
Clerical Centre Party majority in Diet greatly reduced by Liberals and Socialists wins; make-up of new House listed
LONDON, Feb. 14. -- The Archbishop of Canterbury has been delivering criticisms against the garb which he as an ecclesiastic of the Church of England is called upon to wear. Addressing a meeting of clergymen and church wardens in London, he asked:
A woman who was handsomely dressed and who gave her name as Mrs. Henrietta Freligh was arraigned before Justices Kilbreth, Murray, and Morgan, in the Court of Special Sessions, yesterday, charged with keeping a disorderly house at No. 324 East Thirty-fourth-street.
ROME, Sept. 19. -- The Corriere d' Italia, the clerical journal, has received from its Geneva correspondent, who is in close touch with the Italian and Turkish commissioners who are attempting to find a basis on which Rome and Constantinople may be able to negotiate peace, a memorandum of four clauses which he authoritatively declares are those upon which the official negotiations will be based.
The dog-dealing clergyman is a type of the amateur jobber. He often breeds some rather uncommon kind of dog, possibly a species of wolf-hound, the progenitors of which he purchased during his travels in the East, perhaps at an Armenian convent. He invites inspection...
2 indictments against L Van Sickle, charging him with aiding brother, Frank, in Raser's murder, quashed because of error in date; R Spencer acquitted of charge of concealing rifle used in killing
LONDON, Saturday, Jan. 16. -- The Daily Chronicle says that the Cologne Volkszeitung, the leading organ of the German Clerical Party, publishes prominently an article entitled "War as a Moral Institution."
A worthy correspondent is  angry with a missionary society which receives converts in India without compelling then to break their caste. The society is probably unwise, though caste is not exactly what Mr. Dyson thinks; but what will
AS one who has squirmed quite often with embarrassment and chagrin at the sanctimonious ways in which the movies have represented clergymen, this writer is especially pleased this morning to be able to report a new film in which men of God are presented in a human and unaffected light.
ROME, Aug. 16. -- An amusing parrot story has been in circulation lately in Rome in connection with Queen Margherita and a distinguished American woman, well-known in Roman society.
Clerical factions offer bill banning secret socs as retaliatory move for motion for separation of ch and state
PARIS, Jan. 29. -- Just twenty years ago Pope Leo XIII, preached appeasement to the Catholics of France and urged the children of the French Church to rally to the aid of the republic. One of the ecclesiastics who responded to the call was the Abbe Lemire. For twenty years he served as a Deputy, and was recently elected to be one of the four Vice Presidents of the Chamber.
The 25-cent recording fee for dog show entries, abandoned by the American Kennel Club a year ago because the club's finances were in a particularly healthy condition, will be reinstated early in 1948, it was announced yesterday at the A.K.C. delegates' meeting at the Hotel Commodore.
K Winter scored for using Socialist methods to convince workers; Heimwehr press warns workers to join govt labor unions in order to get jobs
BRUSSELS, May 29. -- Although the number of seats in the Belgian House of Representatives has been increased from 166 to 186, it has been apparent all along that the new seats were in Clerical communities, and that the Clerical majority of six would be increased rather than diminished by the present general elections.
The newly organized United States Lines, Inc., which bought the American Merchant and United States Lines from the Shipping Board for $16,300,000, will take over today the...
Revelations regarding negotiations between Chancellor Schuschnigg and Dr Rainthaler, new leader of Austrian Nazi party, pub in Clerical organ, Linzer Volksblatt, in effort to wreck them; reconciliation plan would represent total capitulation of Heimwehr to Nazis
Scott gets right to testify as an individual, UN Trusteeship Com; S Africans reptd impatient with UN
BERLIN, Nov. 9. In the Reichstag to-day, the Army Budget and other financial measures mentioned in the Emperor's speech were referred to appropriate committees.
German Confessional Ch Dec Synod tells of new oppression by Nazis; Rev F Mueller, who signed peace appeal during Czech crisis, to be tried for high treason
PARIS, Nov. 19. -- The taking of the inventories of the 3,500 churches which were not entered last Spring owing to resistance and disorders was begun simultaneously throughout France to-day. Troops everywhere were held in readiness to support the Prefects, it being the intention of the Government not to hesitate before resistance.
Nazis play trick on Ostmaerkischen Sturmscharen by issuing call in its name for volunteers for Ital expeditionary force in Ethiopia
Bishop Byrne declines to discuss demand for apology from priest, alleged to have called Islanders godless
ROME, Aug. 30 (AP) -- Spokesmen or a group of forty-four American Baptists touring Europe asserted today that the recent exchange of etters between President Truman and Pope Pius XII implied that the United States Government was "an lly of clerical totalitarianism."
31 delegates walk out, threatening organization independent of parent ch in U S, over ousting of Filipino minister
CINCINNATI, April 24. -- The Rev. David H. Moore, editor of The Western Christian Advocate, says of the Georgia mob's work:
PATERSON, N.J., April 7 -- The Newark Methodist Conference was continued in this city to-day. The most important business transacted was the election of a fifth delegate to represent the conference at the General Conference in Chicago next month. After one of the liveliest contests in the history of the, conference, the Rev. Daniel Halloren of the Halsey Street Church, Newark, was elected.
Bohemian priest rejects Govt order to defy Papal decree; ch authorities warn clergy to beware of Communists seeking sacraments as result of Fajstl case; religious teachers offered pay rise by Govt
HOLLYWOOD, Calif., March 25 --Frank Sinatra will play the role of Father Paul, a Roman Catholic priest, in the screen version of "The Miracle of the Bells," it was announced today by Jesse Lasky and Walter MacEwen, who will produce the film for RKO release.
WEST MEDFORD, Mass., July 21--The Rev. Dr. Thaddeus William Harris, New Hampshire educator and Episcopal minister, died yesterday, at the age of 84.
PARIS, Jan. 3. -- The elections of Senators whose term will expire nine years hence was held to-day throughout France and the colonies. They resulted in an indorsement of the Government policy, the majority gaining fifteen seats. Most of the retiring members were re-elected, including Premier Clemenceau and Baron d'Estournelles de Constant, advocate of international peace.
THE HAGUE, June 21. -- The general elections for the Second Chamber began this week, and the results are likely to have an important influence on the country's future settling of the fight between the clerical coalition and the different liberal factions.
The test of religious liberty in Yugoslavia is not the killing of a Catholic priest by a Yugoslav mob near Trieste but the way in which the Yugoslav Government deals with the perpetrators of the tragedy, the Rev. William Howard Melish, associate rector of the Episcopal Church of the Holy Trinity, Clinton and Montague Streets, Brooklyn, said yesterday in a statement.
The Rev. Isaac M. Haldeman was quoted in your Monday's issue as having spoken rather violently against the Emmanuel Movement in his sermon on Sunday. May I venture to tell him through your columns that he has misinformed the public as to the nature of the Emmanuel Movement and is himself surprisingly mistaken about its teachings, spirit, and purpose?
An amusing scandal has arisen in a certain parish in the Diocese of Worcester. A young clergyman, curate of the parish has incurred the displeasure of his Vicar by daring to wear a dress which did not exactly accord with the worthy Vicar's taste ...
Zalinski, Capt. E. L.; "Military Instruction in the Public Schools" to be Adopted as Text Book
BERLIN, Jan. 12. -- The most interesting development of the present campaign for the Reichstag is the action of Catholics in eight election districts nominating National candidates in opposition to Clericals. An important manifesto, just issued by prominent Catholics of the Rhine Province, declares:
LONDON, May 17. -- The sentences passed upon Goodall, the evangelist, and the Hon. Patrick Greville-Nugent for assaults committed upon unprotected women journeying by rail do not seem to hare had a deterrent effect upon miscreants who find themselves in the compartments of railway carriages with women or girls who are traveling alone.
ROME, Nov. 10. -- General municipal elections were held in this city to-day, and it is being declared throughout Rome tonight that the anti-Clericals have gained their greatest victory since the fall of the Church from temporal power. Only municipal offices were filled, but as the elections assumed a distinct political character, their importance was not only local, but extended all through Italy.
Clerical workers are capable of doing more work with the least nervous excitation under white lights, it has been shown by a survey conducted by two New York University professors among Emergency Work Bureau employes.
ALBANY, Dec. 2. -- A TIMES correspondent called upon Nathaniel C. Moak to-day and asked him his view of Francis C. Barlow's remarkable opinion as to the course of a court to compel the sending back of returns to Inspectors to compel them to make returns according to the ballots themselves. Mr. Moak said:
BERLIN, July 14. -- The imminent death of the Pope causes general regret throughout Germany and sincere sorrow among the Catholic population. Leo XIII, maintained close relations with German politics. He exercised power over the Centre or Clerical Party, directing a closer alliance with the Government, reconciling differences, and increasing the party's influence upon public policy.
CLARKSBURG, W. Va., Oct. 12.-- Seventeen years a street car conduc  tor and motorman, Carl B. Johnson of Clarksburg became a clergyman today. The veteran employe of the Monongahela Power Company turned in the controller of his depot car and left for Parsons, with his family, to become pastor of the Methodist Protestant Church.
An institute to plan aggressive evangelism is to be held next Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday in the Calvary Methodist Episcopal Church, Seventh Avenue and 129th Street. The churches in the New York, New York East, and Newark Conferences will send representatives. These churches have 1,000 ministers, officials, and local lay workers.
Cardinal Spellman, Anti-Defamation League and Rabbi Rosenblum score Madrid cleric's ban on film Gentleman's Agreement; Rev J LaFarge states official RC Ch view on Jews
NY Guild for Jewish Blind picketed by Soc Service Employes Union protesting alleged lockout of clerical workers, including 12 blind; UOPWA vp and blind workers comment; guild pres L M Wallenstein accepts inv to State Mediation Bd conf; says State law exempts charity groups from union requirements
Two or three clerical errors were found yesterday in the figures of the Brooklyn election returns on the Presidential ticket as recorded at Police Headquarters in that city. The plurality of Gov. Cleveland was stated yesterday morning to be 15,453.
PARIS, July 29. -- The agitation resulting from the circular issued by Premier Combes with regard to the closing of the unauthorized Congregationist schools has considerably abated, even in Brittany, owing to the circumstance that none of the recalcitrant schools will be forcibly closed until special decrees to this end have been signed for each department.
Durango, Mex, lodge sends lr to Mex Masonic organizations supporting Gov J R Valdes in Cath clergy controversy
Lisbon press repts Clerical Party plot to overthrow Govt and establish mil dictatorship in protest against Govt's Liberal policy; Govt alarmed by Repubs arming themselves in preparation for coming Parliamentary (Cortes) elections; gives no explanation as to why it considers Papal Nuncio at Lisbon Msgr Tonti objectionable
From The London Daily News. The scrupulous clerics who appealed to Rome for guidance in the difficult question of the seemliness of the clergy using cycles can hardly be the inhabitants of these isles. Catholic clergymen in this corner of the world, like those of other denominations, have for some time past taken advantage of the cycle.
Annual convention at Buffalo addressed by Sec Davis, who cites dignity of labor and deplores trend toward clerical work
SCRANTON, Penn., Dec. 26.--The guests at Whyte's Hotel were startled this morning by the discovery that an old man named H.S. Ball had committed suicide by swallowing rat poison in one of the rooms during the night. Ball, who appeared to be about 70 years old,
ROME, Sept. 8. -- Mgr. Aversa, Apostolic Delegate to Cuba, was to-day consecrated titular Archbishop of Sardi. The ceremony was performed at Castle Gandolfo by Cardinal Merry del Val, the Papal Secretary of State, assisted by Mgr. Kennedy, Rector of the American College, and the American students.
PARIS, Jan. 21. -- During the debate in the Chamber of Deputies to-day on the estimates of the Department of Public Worship, M. Berard denounced the "dangers of clericalism."
PRAGUE, Czechoslovakia, May 25 (AP) -- Archbishop Josef Beran, fighting restrictions on the Roman Catholic Church in Communist-dominated Czechoslovakia, has hurled the term "Judas" at Government figures aiding the action.
NORFOLK, Va., May 17. -- The admission by John H. Curtis that he had concocted his story of negotiations with the Lindbergh baby's kidnappers out of whole cloth was received with incredulity by the Rev. H. Dobson Peacock, who, with Rear Admiral Guy H. Burrage, retired, enabled Curtis to get in touch with Colonel Lindbergh.
SARATOGA, May 24. -- For the moment this politic village, which is essentially all things to all men, is strictly clerical. Even the spring water bubbles piously, or seems to, in the presence of the cloth, though the same spring water knows how to fizz with a wicked sputter in a punch or cocktail when a thirsty political convention takes possession of the town.
The Executive Committee of the Trunk Line Association devoted the principal part of its session yesterday to a discussion of the question of annual and time passes. For some time past there has been a feeling among the officers of the large and important trunk lines that the annual pass lists which they were asked to fill out each year was assuming altogether too large proportions.
NORFOLK, Va., April 22.--The Virginian will publish to-morrow the following interview with Mr. Dezendorf with reference to Chairman Sabin's "clerical error" in sending him the circular asking for the Virginia delegation to the National Convention. Mr. Dezendorf said he attached no sort of significance to the publication,...
PRAGUE, Czechoslovakia, June 14 -- Prace, organ of the Czechoslovak trade unions, asserted today that the formation of a "Catholic Action" by a group of laymen and priests endorsing cooperation with the Government was "not an anti-church rebellion but a sincere effort of upright and educated Christians to prevent a schism in their own ranks and to prevent falsification and distortion of the words of the Bible."
CHICAGO, Sept. 24.--A clerical looking man went into a Randolph-street store last Monday, and was detected in what appeared to be the theft of some lead pencils.
-On Sunday morning Rev. CASSIUS HOMER HARVEY, recently a Methodist pastor, formally joined the Baptist denomination, and was baptised by Dr. ARMITAGE, in the Norfolk-street Baptist Church. In the evening, Mr. HARVEY preached a forcible sermon from ??? i., 6, in which he gave his reasons for becoming a Baptist.-On Sunday morning Rev. CASSIUS HOMER HARVEY, recently a Methodist pastor, formally joined the Baptist denomination, and was baptised by Dr. ARMITAGE, in the Norfolk-street Baptist Church. In the evening, Mr. HARVEY preached a forcible sermon from ??? i., 6, in which he gave his reasons for becoming a Baptist.
PITTSBURG, Penn, Feb. 18. -- Pittsburg clergymen of several denominations are greatly opposed to the proposed abridgment of the Ten Commandments to be submitted to the convocation of Canterbury by the Dean of Winchester.
A clerical error made Policeman Joseph Skelly of the East Sixty-seventh Street Station an inmate of the insane pavilion at Bellevue Hospital for about an hour yesterday afternoon, and despite the policeman's declarations of perfect sanity, the doctors made him stay there until a messenger had been sent to the Yorkville Court and Magistrate Barlow had corrected the error in the papers.
NORWALK, Conn., Sept. 1. -- The death of the Rev. James Hughes, Vicar General of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Hartford and rector of St. Patrick's Church, Hartford, has caused a number of changes in the clergy, some of which were announced to-day. The Rev. John A. Mulcahy, rector of the Church of the Immaculate Conception of Waterbury, has been transferred to the pastorate of St. Patrick's Church, Hartford.
We have frequently taken occasion to note the injustice of which a very respectable class of people are habitually guilty towards the Press at large, by charging upon it without discrimination faults which an individual journal may have committed. A conspicuous instance was noted committed. A conspicuous instance was noted yesterday in our report of the proceedings of the Old School Presbyterian General Assembly.
We respect and love the Clergy, but for one thing we are ashamed of them. There is alaw'requiring them to make returns to the City Inspector of all the marriages thattheO solemnize. It is a sinl4)le duty,-
Mid-year conference opens; Rev. O. F. Bartholow attacks high church spirit and tendency to engage in scholastic criticism
INDIANAPOLIS, Nov. 3.--The 1st of November was the sixth anniversary of Senator Morton's death. It was hoped to unveil Simmons's statue of the dead statesman on that day, but it has not yet arrived from Italy. It will be here in a short time, however, and its unveiling will not be long delayed. The Hon. Richard W. Thompson will deliver the address.
MADRID, Oct. 8.--Premier Canalejas, in further addressing the Chamber to-day, warned the Deputies that manifestations of Catholics, on the one hand, and workmen on the other, would be likely to stir up civil war.
At the weekly meeting of the Presbyterian Clerical Association, in the chapel of the Union Theological Seminary, yesterday, an interesting discussion arose on the enigmatical problem, "What is the Homiletical Training in our Theological Schools?"
Declaring that the churches of this country have shown little progress during the past ten years, Norman Thomas, speaking before the conference of ministers at the Union Theological Seminary yesterday, attacked intolerance and illiteracy among clergymen.
Cuba proposes 15-member UN com make on-the-spot probe of Prot mins' trial, Ad Hoc Pol Com; resolution text
J T Prout claims $6,700 in cash found by Mrs V Pujos in closet drawer of apt formerly occupied by him
TROY, N.Y., Feb. 26 -- The Rev. William S. Morgan, Ph. D., minister of the First Unitarian Church of Albany, received an interlocutory divorce to-day from Agnes Parsons Morgan, granted by Justice Howard. He named as co-respondent Dr. Arthur C. Leslie, a physician who formerly practical in the vicinity of New Haven, Conn.
Germany reptd to have threatened anti-Czech press drive unless Govt checks dispatches of foreign correspondents; Dr Krofta, Czech Foreign Min, warns reporters; German Clericals (Christian Socialists) to join Henlein
PARIS, July 24 -- Only four unauthorized Congregationist schools now remain in Paris. As the limit of delay accorded by Premier Combes's circular expired at noon to-day it is likely that decrees ordering the expulsion of the sisters will be placed in the hands of the police to-morrow. The execution of these decrees may be accompanied by scenes of violence and disorder.
It is the influence of a Papal Nuncio which hastened in Austria-Hungary a political revolution, the positive effect of which has been to elevate to power Count Goluchowski, that is, a clerical Conservative. The same thing might happen in other countries where the pontifical politics have been less frankly represented. This Nuncio is Mgr. Agliardi, who was the predecessor of Mgr. Ferrata as Secretary of Extraordinary Ecclesiastical Affairs.
Phillips Brooks was born in Boston, Mass., Dec. 13, 1835. His father's name was William Gray Brooks, and he was a descendant or the Rev. Dr. John Cotton, the famous Puritan minister who came out to America in 1633 and became one of the first ministers in the new Boston, town. His mother was Mary Anne Phillips, One of the Phillips family whose members have been notable persons in their successive generations.
OYSTER BAY, N.Y., Sept. 3. -- President Roosevelt returned to Oyster Bay at 8:20 o'clock to-night but little the worse for his thrilling experience of this morning. His right cheek was swollen, there is a black bruise under his right eye, and his mouth is slightly swollen. Otherwise he shows no effects of the accident.
Providing volunteer workers for the Army Extension School, Army and Navy recruiting offices, the Second Military Area office, and for Selective Service headquarters, the members of the National Security Women's Corps have given more than 10,000 hours of service to governmental agencies since this country's entry into the war.
Many prophets were rewarded by the break in yesterday's market, verifying as it did so many predictions made on the preceding day and before the opening yesterday, that lower prices were inevitable. Brokers, as a matter of fact, had issued a more or less general warning that there were symptoms of a setback, and it did not require any great degree of foresight in order to arrive at such a conclusion.
PARIS, April 11. -- The resignation of M. Revoil, as Governor-General of Algeria, announced to-day, has caused a sensation in French political circles, owing to the peculiar circumstances leading up to it. Coming on the eve of President Loubet's departure for Algeria it becomes a veritable coup de theatre.
The London News of July 9, discussing Mr. Charles Roundell's motion in the House of Commons on the subject of the Headships and Fellowships in the colleges of Oxford and Cambridge Universities, says: "The motion declared it inexpedient that, 'save in the case of the Deanery of Christchurch,' any clerical restriction should be attached to any Headship or Fellowship in any college ...
NY Commerce and Indus Assn develops method enabling employers to determine current standards for clerical Jobs, NYC; plans bimonthly surveys to keep information current
resolution which is reported to be inspired by government and embodies Germany's peace terms, is rejected by Clerical Party
Rev E S Straight of Providence agrees to perform marriage; Astor and fiancee sail from NYC
Following is a copy of the printed circular sent to the Clergy of New-England, inviting each to sign the Nebraska protest. It shows that the Commit tee who took the thing in hand were men of energy,-it needs such on all great emergencies:
TIME and ink, together with more of less talent, have given us tomes of fiction dragged out to extraordinary length Nobly denying herself the privilege of writing on forever, Helen R. Martin the author of "Tillie: A Mennonite Maid," has compassed within the space of less than 400 pages a love and character story of real worth in "The Revolt of Anne Royle," (the Century Company.)
LAKE SUCCESS, April 20 -- Hopeful of reaching a vote by late tomorrow or Friday, the United Nations Ad Hoc Political Committee continued today the East-West controversy over the recent trials of Joseph Cardinal Mindszenty in Hungary and fifteen Protestant leaders in Bulgaria.
ELMIRA, N.Y., March 19.--The village of Randolph, in Cattaraugus County, was on Friday last the scene of great excitement over the sudden return to that place of the Rev. Benjamin F. Bowen, a former Pastor of the Baptist Church there, and a personal assault of the most ferocious...
The Methodist Conference met at 9 o'clock yesterday morning at the Eighteenth-street Church, Bishop AMES in the chair. The questions, first, "If a preacher is found guilty of immorality can he be dismissed by the presiding elder?" second, "If a preacher is guilty ...
LONDON, March 22 -- Continental Europe is full of religious excitement, and the recent pronouncement of the Vatican against the so-called Christian Democracy of Italy, which assumes to work for the social and religious betterment of the country, is regarded as another proof of the reactionary influence and intolerance of Cardinal Rampolla.
trial opens, Sofia; Rev N Mihailov and Ivanov plead guilty; link Amer natls Black and M Turner to spy activity; ss and ct scene described
SOFIA, Bulgaria, Feb. 24 -- Angel Timev, Bulgarian Deputy Minister of Justice, held a press conference tonight in a move to establish the good faith of the case prepared by the State against fifteen Protestant ministers who will go on trial tomorrow morning before the district court of Sofia.
Mr and Mrs L Sosa sue NYC, alleging Lincoln Hosp substituted baby boy for girl Mrs Sosa bore; Comr Bernecker claims charge is result of clerical error
Chancellor Dolfuss's clerical Christian Socialist party to be dissolved May 1; negotiations involving leadership and relations of Fascist organizations blocked by rivalry of Prince von Starhemberg and Vice Chancellor Fey
Tait, Bishop, and Church of St. Michael; Clerical BickeringsThe London Daily News narrates, in a recent number, a singular difficulty, or rather series of difficulties, which occurred at the dedication of the Church of St. Michael and All Angels in that city. We are informed that the first cause of offence to the officiating Bishop, Dr. TAFT, was the appearance of the altar, which was decorated with four handsome bouquets, which latter he desired should be removed. Again, on the entrance of the priests of the church, who were habited in surplices with richly embroidered stoles, he is reported to have said, quietly but sternly: "The clergy of my diocese must appear in the ceremonial of to-day in the simple dress of clergymen of England." No attention being paid to this, Dr. TAIT repeated, "I must ask you to take off those ribands, gentlemen;" which request was then speedily complied with. On the stone reredos behind the communion table there was a rough sketch, in charcoal, of the crucifixion, with two figures of the saints. This also was highly objectionable, and the Bishop desired that it should be obliterated. As the operation could not be well performed at that time, the incumbent, (Rev. Mr. LYFORD,) signed a memorandum to the effect that it should certainly be erased, on which the Bishop proceeded with the ceremony of dedication.
INDIANAPOLIS, NOV. 16.--Nothing has created a more profound sensation in this State than the allegation of scandal affecting President Lemuel Moss, of the State University, formerly of the Chicago University, and President of the National Baptist Association.
Rev. Dr. HENRY, an eminent and learned clergyman of the Episcopal Church, has addressed to a United States Senator the following letter on the subject of compromising the Slavery question: Rev. Dr. HENRY, an eminent and learned clergyman of the Episcopal Church, has addressed to a United States Senator the following letter on the subject of compromising the Slavery question:
OTTAWA, Ontario, Jan. 30.--The town of Brantford, Ontario, has been thrown into a state of great excitement over a social soandal in which the Rev. T.R. Beattle, Pastor of the First Presbyterian Church, figures conspicuously.
Prohibition agents yesterday seized 1,250 cases of whisky, valued at $125,000, on Pier 28, North River, which is a Pennsylvania Railroad freight station. The liquor was taken to the Knickerbocker Warehouse pending further investigation. The whisky was consigned to P. De Lacio, 123 East 110th Street, a wholesale druggist.
Roman Caths alarmed at increase in membership caused by pol protests of Socialist workers against Clerical-Fascist triumph
LaGuardia approves living cost pay rise for 10,300 employes and Carey's manpower conservation plan; lauds pol and graft absence, lr to Carey
Govt denounces concordat with Vatican; charges violation by Holy See; arrests and deportations of clerics reptd
The press in Rome at the present moment presents a very curious spectacle, and it is one which is found repeated in a greater or less degree in the other chief centres of political life in Italy. At least the repetition holds good so far as the organs of the liberal parties...
First details of methods to simplify pricing and billing, which conserve clerical time, reduce costs and eliminate delays in distribution of industrial supplies, were revealed here over the week-end in the first copy of a comprehensive pricing analysis presented recently by R.H. Russell, treasurer of J. Russell  Co., Inc., Holyoke, Mass.
TORONTO, Nov. 27.--In fifty-nine days spent in New York City the Rev. Gifford Gordon of Melbourne, Australia, Financial Secretary of the Victorian Anti-Saloon League, saw only three drunken men, he told the convention of the World League Against Alcoholism today in an address in which he paid tribute to the leadership which the United States has taken in the prohibition movement.
Peace move between revisionist bloc (Italy, Austria and Hungary) and status quo bloc (Little Entente and France) impending; proposed that Hungary drop demand for peace treaty revision in return for concessions to Hungarian minorities by Little Entente
anti-Communists are expected to win May 26 election; Communists reptd influential because of Govt and indus posts; gen pol set-up described
ALBANY, Nov. 28 -- Results made public today by the State Department of Labor of a survey made in October of the earnings of office and clerical workers in 2,612 factories in the State show that women workers earn less than men in comparable jobs.
Bavarian Denazification Min asks Mil Govt to make internment camps available to hold certain classes of Nazis expected to be sentenced under new denazification law; plans to use camp labor for clearing rubble and reconstruction noted
To the Editor of the New-York Times: In your excellent report of the proceedings of the Diocesan Convention of the Protestant Episcopal Church, contained in this morning's issue, you make a mistake which I would like to see corrected. You say, "Mr. McVICKAR'S ??amendment was put to the house, and carried almost without a dissenting voice."
The latest intelligence received in this city from Mexico states that the Imperialist, Gen. JOSE GUTIERREZ, who had been hidden in the Capital since the surrender of MAXIMILIAN, was discovered on the 19th of June, and subsequently sentenced to death. He has just been pardoned by JUAREZ.
The famous decision of the Council of State, on the appeal made to the Crown against the arbitrary proceeding of the Bishop of Pernambuco was published on the 15th inst. It was accompanied by an official communication from the Minister of the Empire to the Bishop, in which the whole matter is briefly recapitulated, and the resolution taken by the Government plainly stated.
volunteers aid U S Employment Service in Conn registration; McNutt wire commends drive; procedure discussed; anecdotes
While employment in New York City declined slightly last month, there was an upward trend noted in the State at large, according to the monthly review of conditions by the United States Employment Service. An analysis of reports received by the service indicates that there is no serious amount of unemployment existing in any section of the country.
The Times, a few evenings since, gave publicity to a rumor which involved a Lutheran clergyman of a " neighboring town" in a scandalous transaction. The article, as printed, contained an important error. The person involved in the affair is accused of taking unusual liberties with the persons of several members of his flock, and not of seduction.
H S Johnson says 40-hr wk and payment of at least minimum wages is not sufficient for agreement with NRA
Views of Dr J P McComas, Pres of Clerical Union of N Y; and Dr W N Guthrie
81 prominent Socialists and anti-clericals sent to Woellersdorf concentration camps without trial; Communists urge workers to resist govt plan to force them to participate in pro-Dollfuss demonstrations May 1; Dollfuss reptd planning to demand strict adherence to his leadership
Clerical job standards plan effecting 20% savings described, Office Execs Assn conv, NYC,; UOPWA pres J Durkin scores plan as speed-up
"Church and State" was one the rallying cry of the ultra Tories in Great Britain and Ireland. There the people have a "Church by law established." and to maintain this connection was the constant aim of Torydom.
BERLIN, Jan. 2. -- Chancellor Von Buelow to-day disclosed the motives and aims of the Government in dissolving the Reichstag in a Vigorous election manifesto, which took the form of a letter to Lieut. Gen. Von Liebert, Chairman of the Managing Committee of the Empire League, formed to combat the Social Democrats.
FROM time immemorial the power of mind over matter has been a recognized factor for good or evil.
PARIS, Jan. 8.--Tomorrow's Senatorial election has all the importance of a general national election, although, in accordance with French custom, it only concerns one-third of the present Senate --that is, there are about a hundred ...
Special article on law forbidding doctors, lawyers, or clergymen to tell professional secrets; legal decisions recalled
Dr. William Porter received a letter yesterday from Rev. S.J. Niccolls, Pastor of the Second Presbyterian Church of this city, dated Camp Stickney, Aug. 14. Camp Stickney is near Booneville, N.Y., and is known to a number of St. Louis people as a famous hunting and fishing camp. The following extracts from the letter will give an idea of how Pastor Niccolls is spending his vacation:
Amer and Brit officials in Sofia cite errors and discrepancies in confessions; see trial aimed to discredit West; B M Baruch scores Ziapkov testimony
BERLIN, Feb. 25. -- The first business day of the new Reichstag developed a general discussion on the dissolution last December of the previous body, and the subsequent political campaign. The Imperial Chancellor, Prince Bulow, replied to Herr Spahn, the leader of the Clericals, in a speech which lasted for an hour and a half.
ROME, March 13, (by telegraph to Clifden, Ireland; thence by wireless.) -The Italian general elections which will be concluded by the second balloting tomorrow in thirty-four constituencies have caused great excitement at the Vatican. Opponent of the policy followed by Pope Pius X., who are rather numerous, especially among the Cardinals residing in Rome, are up in arms against what they call an unnecessary show of weakness in the Clerical Party.
BERLIN, Dec. 22 -- The Christmas recess has not brought with it political peace. The Deputies are holding meetings and making speeches daily on the Anti-Socialist bill, and the newspapers are discussing with increasing bitterness its prospects in the Reichstag.
CWA Service Bur starts registration; inadequacy of $15 to $35 a week for "white-collar workers as against 50c to $1.20 per hour for labor argued
Reopening of L L Weiss's suits against present management and its refinancing plan is made possible by Court's ruling that previous suits were not settled, merely held in abeyance
Contributions received yesterday for the Hundred Neediest Cases totaled $1,017,97 carrying the total to $79,226,49, which is still about $27,000 short of that given for the relief of the neediest a year ago.
ROME, April 9.--Ernesto Nathan, former Mayor of Rome, died here today of heart failure. He contracted the disease while fighting in the mountainous country as a volunteer in the war, which undermined his constitution.
G B Shaw's Too True to Be Good banned by Gov of Warsaw; mgr seeks to lift ban
Edward F. McSweency, Assistant Commisisoner of Immigration, presided at the morning session of the conference of the Federation of Churches and Christian Organizations, which was resumed yesterday at the Broadway Tabernacle, at Thirty-fourth Street and Sixth Avenue, and the forenoon was devoted to a consideration of methods of dealing with the immense foreign population of New York City.
WASHINGTON, June 23 -- Czechoslovak authorities are violating "the decencies of civilization" in their attacks on Archbishop Josef Beran, Secretary of State Dean Acheson said today.
With conditions bordering on demoralibation in foreig ntrade circles, cotton advanced 2 cents a pound yesterday. The rise was halted, not by reason of increased supply, but because of a rule on New Orleans and New York Exchanges that prevented a movement of more than 2 cents in one session.
PARIS, Dec. 5. -- The liberty of all educationally qualified persons to open a school in France has hitherto reposed on the famous Loi Falloux of 1850. The association and the separation laws did away with open religious domination of schools and with the clerical garb of teachers, but, in spite of these restrictions, clerical secondary schools have continued to exist under a civil guise and by virtue of the law of 1850.
many who deserted navy after armistice apply for discharge papers to get bonus; many overpayments through clerical errors; army authorities hold desertions between armistice and 1921 still punishable
JOHN D. ROCKEFELLER, Jr., probably never imagined when he spoke before his Bible class last Sunday morning in such favorable terms of Joseph as the man who cornered the corn, that he was going to direct such marked attention not only to his own views of that worthy Biblical character, but also to the business principles involved in that transaction. Mr. Rockefeller thought that Joseph did the right thing and in the right way.
Nationalists demand expulsion of Piscator, Volksbuehne director, and Jessner, Prussian State Theatres director, as radical agitators
CHICAGO, Dec. 13.--An attachment was issued in the Circuit Court to-day against the American Opera Company for $3,840, and an execution placed in the hands of a Deputy Sheriff, with instructions to levy on the property of the National Opera Company, successors of the American Company. The attachment was issued in the suit of J.H. McVicker, of this city, ...
J. Grande tells of interview with Dr. Waltz, Bishop of Innsbruck, who says only Amer or British occupation can prevent revolution in Vienna; Clerical Party said to be plotting to replace ex-Emperor Charles upon the throne
PARIS, May 16, (Correspondence of The Associated Press.) -- A campaign by the extreme anti-clerical elements of the Radical and Socialist parties against the presence of priests at the battle fronts in daily contact with soldiers has brought sharply into public notice the work which these priests have done and are doing at the front.
PARIS, Aug. 24.--It is generally supposed that between the Grand Prix and the return of pleasure seekers from the seaside, that is to say, during what is known as the "dead season," no such thing as a premiere is ever vouchsafed to theatre-goers.
Several indictments are likely to be found next week by the extraordinary Grand Jury which is investigating the police failure in the Cruger case. The Grand Jurors have asked that no sessions be held in August and that evidence against accused policemen and police officials be rushed next week. The Grand Jury will probably adjourn through August and resume the general...
Russia believes anti-clerical movement will be pivot on which Spain will swing to Communism; urges formation of people and troops into soviets
Quisling authorities reptd yielding in fight on Luth Ch; restore rights to 10 discharged and exiled clerics; 5 of 17 executed by Gers for Communist activity and working for hostile State identified; attempt to blow up Norsk hydro-elec plant, mfg war chems, reptd; Rev G Moeller, fugitive, cites experiences with Gestapo and maltreatment of prisoners
20 RC priests seized for reading Bishop Adamski pastoral lr in chs scoring anti-religion Govt actions; all but 6 reptd freed
Ital Cath Action starts 'Crusade of the Great Return' to convert atheists and bring nominal Caths back to ch; L Gedda heads drive; method outlined
TWA sues to bar Holy Yr US-Rome charter service by Pan Amer; charges co violates deal with Felix Roma for ltd flights; W L Pierson comments; Amer Overseas scores CAB plan for charter flights
M C Taylor expected to resign as Pres Truman envoy; illness reptd cause; Vatican circles comment; Taylor silent
Stuart, Fla, wedding place, hon O'Dwyer; comment on town, on St Joseph's Ch and on Father Geary who will perform ceremony
Vatican and Ital Govt plans for pilgrims outlined; include permit to use pilgrims' card as visa and special rules on lire exch
RC Ch asks Israel to transfer 800 refugees from ch bldgs, Nazareth, needed for Holy Yr pilgrims
St Martin's, Manhattan: gets carillon of 40 bells, 2d largest in city, from Holland; Consul Gen Cnoop-Koopmans s; illus
seeks charter services for educ, religious and charitable groups, summer, '50, to meet Holy Yr demand; approves Pan Amer deal with Felix Roma for NYC-Rome charter service; H A Jones dissents; TWA opposed; CAB plans cut-rate round-trip fares, Jan-Apr
E Asian Christian Conf opens, Bangkok; sponsored by World Chs Council and Internatl Missionary Council; Internatl Christian Chs Council pres Rev C McIntire charges conf backs communism; Dr Mackay reply
Port of NY Authority files brief with ICC asking reversal of decision sustaining NYC pier unloading fee; H S Cullman comment
Ital Parliament com waives Deputy L Diaz immunity to permit charges of insulting Pope to be filed against her
Israel transfers to USSR all property to which ch has clear title; issue revd; some assets still disputed
Pope approves decrees canonizing Blessed Stranbi and beatifying V Palotti and Sisters Torres Acosta and Cerioli
Msgr Kellenberg pastoral lr asks NYC Caths to pray to avert further destruction of shrines and violation of Cath rights in city
PHILADELPHIA, Pa., Nov. 18 -- Following the semi-annual meeting of its thirty-six members from all sections of the country, the Board of Christian Education of the Presbyterian Church in the U. S. A. reported today that several new records had been set thus far this year.
The proposed merger of the Congregational Christian churches and the Evangelical and Reformed Church was attacked yesterday by witnesses in Brooklyn Supreme Court as a "step backward" for Congregational churches.
The merger of the Congregational Christian churches and the Evangelical Reformed Church would "jeopardize the freedom of expression" now enjoyed by Congregational ministers, it was testified yesterday in Brooklyn Supreme Court, where the proposed union is being contested in a civil action.
ATLANTIC CITY, Nov. 22 -- The coming three months will be crucial to success of the Federal public housing program, and Roman Catholics should participate in and spur local action in its behalf, Msgr. John O'Grady urged here today.
Bklyn Sup Ct hears suit to ban merger with Congregational Christian Chs; bars planning merger conv
Rev J G Schultz warns of attempts to divide hierarchy and laity; scores P Blanshard attacks
Six years ago it occurred to the Rev. A. Ritchie Low, pastor of the Federated Church of Johnson, Vt., that children in Harlem needed country vacations and that church people in Vermont could see to it that some of them had them. The plan worked well and led to friendships between the children's parents and the Vermont sponsors. Now a group of Vermonters make an annual pilgrimage to Harlem.
RC Msgr Ligutti message; Dr Landis holds rural work develops closer-Prot-Cath ties; comm program outlined; Rev Dr Smith criticizes rural chs
US Library of Cong and Amer Oriental Research Schools to photograph ancient Greek Orthodox Ch mss and paintings in ch Jerusalem library for 1st time
Cables arriving almost daily from distribution centers abroad are pleading with War Relief Services of the National Catholic Welfare Conference for clothing and soap. The pleas come not only from Europe but also from the Near Eastern and Far Eastern countries where once again roads are jammed with helpless civilians seeking new homes.
Pope asks world Caths to pray for just UN decision on shrines issue; Vatican sources outline settlement satisfactory to RC Ch; text; UN debate in wk seen
convocation on Ch in Town and Country, Lincoln, Neb; Rev E L Becker on evangelistic problems with growing non-farm rural population
lease on 1,500 schools, Eng and Wales, offered state if it assumes rebldg and other costs
Israel to let Cath Holy Yr pilgrims cross into Israeli areas; Jordan refuses to hon Israeli visas
Rev Dr Miller urges rev of NYC ch programs in view of population and other changes
conv sanctions communion by intinction for 1st time; Bishops approves budget; votes amendment for supervision of chaplains
St Patrick's Cathedral, Manhattan: to be 1st ch in US and 16th in world to have name inscribed on floor of St Peter's, Rome
Trinity Ch, Manhattan: does not press eviction of tenants near St Luke's Chapel; plans to redevelop site
Franciscan Friars of the Atonement: Graymoor (Garrison, NY) group to mark 50th anniv; Cardinal Spellman message
urges work for peace; bishops revise rules on remarriage of divorced; proposal on bishops retiring referred to com
ROME, Oct. 1 -- Cardinal Spellman arrived in Rome by air from Amsterdam tonight to make his "ad limina" visit to the tomb of Apostles Peter and Paul and report to the Pope on the condition of affairs in the Archidiocese of New York.
women present record donation; Bishops and Deputies Houses approve establishment of Ch Foundation for wealthy donors; Bishops urge psychological exams for holy orders candidates; Newark Diocese com urges anti-communism study course
Holy Trinity Ch, Bklyn: PE Bishops House gets resolution for restoration of Rev Dr Melish as pastor
To leave for Communist China as missionary; noted as 1st Amer to get visa; marriage plans
St John the Divine, Cathedral of, Manhattan: Eucharistic service marks 400th anniv of Book of Common Prayer; illus
Rev W Schimek repts Natl Cath Rural Life Conf asks permit to translate rural blessings into Eng; backs 'dialogue' mass
CASTEL GANDOLFO, Italy, Sept. 4 (AP) -- An unofficial translation of the Pope's radio broadcast today to German Roman Catholics at Bochum follows:
Holy Office Congregation lr in Pilot (pub) reproves Rev L Feeney and 4 discharged coll teachers for insisting on doctrine of no salvation outside ch; notes Pope backs lr; Feeney stays firm; awaits Papal ex cathedra pronouncement
Israel Parliament votes to give USSR and Moscow patriarchate, rather than local chs, control of ch properties in Israel
Patriarch Alexius statement in Izvestia terms excommunication of Communists contrary to faith; declares loyalty to ch and to USSR not in conflict; ch rejection of Patriarch Athenagoras possible anti-Communist decree indicated
Abp Evangelides illness may bar him from taking post as N and S Amer spiritual head
Holy Trinity Ch, Bklyn: congregation com to appeal ousting of pastor Rev Dr Melish at PE gen conv; statement
Zayim position seen weakened by reptd betrayal of A Saadeh to Lebanon; Zayim aims to control Lebanon reptd frustrated by Egypt; Saadeh followers reptd planning to assassinate Zayim
Dulwich Grove Ch, London: pastor Rev W F Allen resigns when members object to Communist membership
comment on ch-state conflict; Govt seen trying to split ch hierarchy from Vatican; reorgn of diocesan boundaries and ch role in educ seen key issues; factions in ch circles noted
St James Chapel (Ch of the Presidents), Long Branch, NJ: abandons services; Rev C H Snyder seeks to have it made natl shrine; ilus
A Rosenberg diary reveals Hitler plan to appt natl 'popes' in each country conquered by Nazis
Pravda charges internatl reaction dictates RC anti-Communist ban; links it to Truman and Prime Min Attlee attacks on communism
SILVER BAY, N. Y., July 17 -- A proposal that the major Protestant missionary agencies join forces to send a fact-finding commission of high ranking church leaders to Indonesia was made here today by the Rev. Dr. Joseph R. Sizoo, president of the New Brunswick Theological Seminary, New Brunswick, N. J.
Rev M Niemoeller urges World Council of Chs to help Gers fight plant dismantling; holds plants needed to aid E Gers who fled to W Ger; council backs plea
St Nicholas, Collegiate Reformed Ch of, Manhattan: final service before razing bldg; chapel to be used for services, Aug; T Roosevelt pew disposal uncertain; illus
Pres Truman recalls NY Times publisher A H Sulzberger June, '48, prediction made to Pope Pius that Truman would be defeated; cites Pope post-election query on issue to M C Taylor; Sulzberger comments
J H Stipe to resign as Soc Service Div head to enter min; R J O Cumming succeeds
SILVER BAY, N. Y., July 14 -- "The three great perils" facing modern civilization were defined today by the Rev. Dr. Charles T. Leber of the Board of Foreign Missions of the Presbyterian Church in the U. S. A. as "the unexpected acceleration of world revolution," "a universal psychosis of suspicion" and "substitution of atomic might for Almighty God."
Sup Congregation of Holy Office decrees major excommunication for all who aid communism; orders clergy to refuse them sacraments; brands communism as anti-Christian; 330 million Caths seen affected
Conf on Christian World Missions, sponsored by 4 agencies, opens, Silver Bay, NY; Rev Dr M A Chappel, urges missions be 'major business' of ch
Father C Keenan says Cath readers of NY Daily Worker will be excommunicated under Papal anti-Communist decree
ROME, July 13 -- Following is an official translation from the Latin of the decree by the Congregation of the Holy Office on excommunication of Communists:
Lay activities gen bd annual meeting, Chicago; Dr A S Flemming apptd bd member; other vacancies filled
US State Dept repts Govt seizes Moscow ch but permits services to continue; Rev G A Laberge comment
W H Tuck warns against leaving DPs in Ger and Austria after '50; Father E J Kilian pledges RC Ch aid
Luth Synod Atlantic dist announces fund drive to establish St Matthew's Luth Ch for the Deaf
THE appearance of this book has settled the question, which was at one time generally asked, whether "The Mirrors of Downing Street."
The Yearbook of American Churches, published recently under the auspices of the Federal Council of Churches of Christ in America, computes the total number of church members in the United States at 77,000,000. This, it is pointed out, is a ratio of better than one in two of the population, compared with one in fifteen 150 years ago.
New York is a city of spiritual contrasts where faith is expressed in many and varied forms of worship. Certain churches make an appeal not only to their own adherents but to the community as a whole. The following have been selected for this reason from a much larger number.
The declaration made by Cardinal Innitzer following his interviews with the Pope and the Cardinal Secretary of State clearly indicates that the Primate of Austria has been made to realize in Rome that the letter he issued March 18, urging Catholics to vote for the union with Germany, was open to serious misunderstanding.
CRYSTAL-GAZING into the riddle of England finds no more meaningful material to work upon than London's derelict churches. There are forty-seven of them, some of them Sir Christopher Wren's handiwork, which have stood for a century and more in the City of London proper, the small financial section of the metropolis in which the wealth of England and a considerable part of the rest of the world is concentrated.
There is a remembered prayer of ROWLAND WILLIAMS which would be especially appropriate for repetition by the great church council now sitting in Oxford representing hundreds of Christian denominations of the earth:
As tomorrow is Independence Day virtually all the sermons today will be of a patriotic nature. Many clergymen will weave in moral issues as dealt with in the Democratic and Republican national conventions not a few commenting on the prohibition planks in the platforms of the two major parties.
Every community in the United States is eager for the census population returns. Few are aware that another count was made by the United States Census Bureau between the decennial enumerations of 1920 and 1930, with special reference to the religious state of city and country.
There have been preliminary steps toward the merging of several religious denominations in the United States. Two years ago it was pro
A united Christian world can alone "stem the tide of materialism, of self "ishness, of shaken traditions, of "crumbling moral standards."This is a voice not from the pulpit but from the pew, and from one whose name is known in all lands--one who in a sense has gained the whole world but whose highest concern is the saving of the souls of men. And his hope is that
To the Editor of The New York Times: Not so long ago a clergyman was quoted as saying that if certain wealthy persons did not come up with their money, "they could take it and go to hell." Nice remark from the pulpit! -- which at least might be refined in its utterances.
Midway between two little Iowa towns South English and Kinross stands a plain frame church. It rises stark and bare from the prairie, with no friendly vines, no protecting trees or shrubbery to bind it to the landscape.
States ch refuses dictation from power-pol minded statesmen, s in Seattle; opposes both sides in US coal strike
It would be without profit to discuss  the differences between the Bishops of  the Methodist Episcopal Church South  Apprently the majority of them sincere  ly believe it their duty to take sides in  politics.
THE architect who placed the dollar mark and a hundred or more other indisputable modernisms in St. Thomas's was  following a time-honored precedent when he symbolized the passing show in Fifth Avenue.
PEA pres W B Nichols lr on C H Tuttle criticism of PEA views on Prof Dodson survey
MOSCOW, April 30 (AP). -- The Russian Orthodox Easter was observed tonight by thousands of persons. The churchgoers gathered early in the dimly lit chapels, large and small. The shabby exteriors of the buildings were in striking contrast to the 40,000 churches formerly in Moscow.
There has been much complaint that enemies of prohibition have tried to discredit the Volstead act by accusing the reformers of further schemes which they have never contemplated. Unfortunately, the language of many of the latter, when addressing audiences...
L A Finlay reveals he and 5 others were barred from holding union office for 10 yrs for taking ct action to block officers pay rise, House subcom hearing
Lr from W H Jefferson on origin of system, denying that it was first put into practical use at Antioch College
Arrangements have just been completed for what President HOWARD of the American Farm Bureau Federation proclaims to be one of the greatest steps yet taken in the development of co-operative marketing and in the elimination of waste between the producer and consumer.
WASHINGTON, Aug. 14. -- Attorney General Cummings congratulated justice agents today on having "killed two birds with one stone" in the capture of Bailey.
Repr Dickinson outlines legislative program farm bloc will support in next Cong; Coolidge discusses co-operative marketing assns with F B Kellogg and D B Heard; Omaha Grain Exchange urges immediate increase in wheat tariff
Work has been started on the first co-operative apartment ever undertaken by Julius Tishman  Sons, builders. It will be located at 110 West Fifty-fifth Street, between Sixth and Seventh Avenues, and will be nine stories in height, on a plot 100 by 100.
Work has been started on the first co-operative apartment ever undertaken by Julius Tishman  Sons, builders. It will be located at 110 West Fifty--fifth Street, between Sixth and Seventh Avenues, and will be nine stories in height, on a plot 100 by 100. The building will ...
PLANS that contemplate a close co-operative arrangement between England and the United States for Child Welfare were announced by Lady Julia Henry  of London, who sailed Saturday on the steamship Olympic. From this undertaking she hopes that each nation will ...
Co-operative plan of play production is put into effect by R. Lambert, producer of "Art and Opportunity,"
A novel whose heroine exclaims at the age of 11: "It is wicked to compete! I will not! No one shall ever make me! Even if everybody else does I never will. I will co-operate by myself forever and ever," might very well be expected to be different from other stories. And Florence Converse's "Children of Light" does not disappoint the expectation.
urges co-operative marketing for farmers, at convention of Farm Mortgage Bankers' Assn at West Baden, Ind
To the Editor of The New York Times: In the "Collective Ownership" and "Cooperative Commonwealth" referred to by Mr. W.H. Paine in a communication in your issue of the 10th, all must work, I believe. Each man must perform his share of labor; otherwise there can be no effective "co-operation."
The demand for small apartments, especially those of the co-operative type, in the heart of Manhattan is shown by the fact that Holbrook Hall, a fifteen-...
At St. George's Hall, Langham Place, recently, Dr. Andrew Wilson delivered the last lecture of the series arranged for prior to the Christmas vacation, choosing for his subject "Some Animal Co-operative Societies."
The latest of the new large co-operative apartment buildings constructed on Park Avenue by the Co-operative Building Construction Company, is now being erected for the 563 Park Avenue Company at the northeast corner of Park Avenue and Sixty-second Street. The cost of the site and building is to be $650,000. Walter B. Chambers is the architect, and Payson McL. Merrill, the agent for the owners.
Specimen national bank notes of one new Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers' Co-operative National Bank of Cleveland were received by New York bankers yesterday. The notes are just getting into circulation. They are signed by William B. Prenters, cashier, and Warren S. Stone, cashier.
VERY often the question has arisen why it is that the cooperative movement is successful in England and why any attempt to inaugurate it in  America always proves abortive.
The Home Builder's Club, acting for forty members represented by Alfred Chasseaud and Alfred Peyser, has ...
MINNEAPOLIS, Minn., March 20.--The Minnesota Knights of Labor have purchased 600 acres of land in Crow Wing County, and will establish thereon a co-operative colony.
ST. LOUIS, Mo., Feb. 26.--To-day Mr. J. K.Cummings, proprietor of the St. Louis Glass Works, filed articles of incorporation for his works as a co-operative body.
In a report in THE TIMES of Wednesday upon the case of the Home Co-operative Employment Bureau charged with violating the employment agency law by advertising without the name of the agency, there are some misstatements. The agency was not established or run, as was stated, by Miss Frances A. Kellar, but by the Directors of the Clara de Hirsh Home for Working Girls.
Fed ct denies injunction to 7 elevators cos and Chicago Trade Bd seeking Fed as against State jurisdiction, complaint filed by D F Rice, July, '44
FALL RIVER, Mass., Feb. 4.--For more than a week there has been no change in the situation of affairs at the mills where strikes were inaugurated by some of the operatives. The operatives have heretofore been ignorant of the effect of the reduction, and when the first week's wages was received, which was paid today, the operatives in many cases were ...
Your impartiality in admittance to your columns of communications on topics of public interest makes me bold to expect that you will not bar the door to one who, though he may be an idle dreamer, wishes to avow his belief that the so-called and so-much vilified and condemned trusts will yet bring about the dreamed-of, long-sought-for wedding of capital and handicraft in union for common interests and mutual prosperity.
DES MOINES, Iowa, July 7.--About a month ago the Auditor of the State revoked the certificates of four Iowa co-operative life insurance associations. The Home, of Burligton, has brought suit by mandamus to require the restoration of its certificate, and an agreed statement has been prepared, which will be heard by Judge Miracle, of Webster City, at this place on Thursday, July 12.
The rapidly growing popularity of the co-operative apartment house in this city shows that they must be seriously considered in the future upbuilding of residence sections, as they develop high-priced properties to their greatest earning capacity.
FALL RIVER, Mass., Jan. 31.--The operative spinners held a large meeting to-night to decide whether they would accept the proposed reduction in wages. Secretary Howard read a letter from the Board of Trade expressing regret at being forced to make a reduction, and claiming ...
about 75,000 Westinghouse Elec Corp workers to get chance to quit UERMWA without being fired as stipulated in '46 contract's escape clause; co-union negotiations continue; old contract to stay in force until new agreement is reached
Conv, Atlantic City, bans 6 from holding office for 10 yrs for ct suit on officers pay rise
The Co-operative Division of the State Department of Foods and Markets, of which Dr. Eugene H. Porter is Commissioner, has issued an interesting pamphlet on "Co-operative Housing."
PHILADELPHIA, Nov. 24.--For several months there have been difficulties of various kinds among the hosiery operatives of Louis Jones at Bristol, Penn., and frequent unsuccessful efforts to effect a settlement have been made by the Executive Board of District Assembly No. 1 Knights of Labor.
President Edward J. Pearson of the New York, New Haven and Hartford Railroad Company, has informed noteholders of the 4 per cent. fifteen-year European Loan of 1907, that the extension provided in the agreement of March 8, 1922, is operative.
"The King's Men," as to the making of it, verifies the old adage of too many cooks spoiling the broth. We are to suppose that some four gentlemen of the literary craft have, for the fun of the thing, agreed to write a story, rather for their own amusement than for the delectation of the public.
The friends of the new movement for cooperation in New-York did a wise thing in holding a public meeting at once to honor Mr. HUGHES and to secure some words of advice from him in regard to the whole subject. For during the past thirty years there ...
WASHINGTON, July 8.--The Department of Commerce tonight made public a seventy-page monograph on the "Russian Co-operative Movement," showing that 20,000,000 persons, representing a population of 100,000,000, are members of the Russian Co-operative Societies.
THEY haven't a license and I just bought a cocktail there with my dinner and saw others do the same thing, Captain."
A prospectus has been put forth for a "Merchants and Telegraphists' Association," which is quite unique in its character. Whether it is to be practicable depends on the organizing capacity of those...
ALBANY, N.Y., March 9.--The operatives at the Feary Shoe Factory here, numbering 325 men, struck work at noon to-day because the manufacturing company declined to accede to their demands for an advance of 10 per cent, on their old wages. President Feary's proposal to arbitrate the matter was not accepted by the Knights of Labor.
BOSTON, Mass., Jan. 16.--The operatives in the mills of Messrs. B.B.  R. Knight, in Natick, River Point, Arctic, and Hebronville, received notice to-day that the wages of those engaged on piece work would be advanced on Feb. 1 so as to make good the loss in pay occasioned by the 10-hour law. There is considerable rejoicing among the operatives.
BERLIN, Sept. 27. -- Medical circles have been disturbed and surgical circles correspondingly elated over the address delivered this week by Prof. Czerny at the Congress of German Naturalists and Physicians at Munster, Westphalia, for the famous Heidelberg man has been one of the foremost advocates of non-operative methods in the treatment of cancer.
The Paterson Co-operative Association, Limited, was started at Paterson, N.J., last May, with a capital stock of $2,400, and opened a neat and attractive grocery store in Marketstreet, near Prince.
FALL RIVER, Mass., Feb. 18.--The quiet which has existed among the cotton operatives here on account of the depressed condition of the print cloth market was broken by a strike of the spinners in the Troy mill this afternoon, ...
In the report upon life insurance companies in the annual statement of the Insurance Commissioner of the State of Massachusetts, a statistical tabulation is given of the business done by the various beneficiary or co-operative insurance associations that are permitted to take risks or, as it is termed, issue certificates in that State.
BUFFALO, Jan. 25.--A co-operative stove manufacturing company is being organized in this city with $75,000 capital. Abourt $35,000 has thus far been subscribed. The shares are $100 each, and no person is to be allowed to hold, govern, or control more than 30 such shares.
The case of the Co-operative Dress Association was before Judge Barrett, in Supreme Court, Chambers, yesterday. In the suit brought by the firm of Danzig Brothers an order was issued modifying the injunction so as to permit Freling H. Smith, the Receiver, to transfer the stock of the ...
FALL RIVER, Mass., Feb. 6.--The strike among the cotton operatives is gradually spreading throughout the entire city. The only new feature to-day was the strike this afternoon in the three mills owned by the Pocasset Manufacturing ...
urges compilation of family tree indicating diseases each member suffered from in order to insure sound offspring
One little neighborhood in the national capital has come nearer a true solution of the marketing question than many theorist. This community for the last four months has had in successful operation a genuine co-operative store. It deals as directly as possible with the producer on the one hand and the consumer on the other, eliminating as many of the middlemen as is feasible.
WASHINGTON, July 26.--A substitute for the House co-operative marketing bill for agricultural producers was reported favorably today by the Senate ...
BIDDEFORD, Me., Sept. 17.--The wages of the employes of the Saco Water-power Machine Shop, numbering some 500 persons, have been reduced 10 per cent. The reduction went into operation to-day.
Real estate brokers interested in cooperative apartment house projects took issue yesterday with the statement made on Tuesday by Alderman William F. Quinn, in which he attacked this form of real estate ownership.
The affairs of the Co-operatire Dress Association, which failed over a year ago, will soon be wound up. Freling E. Smith, the Receiver, said yesterday that a great deal of litigation had ...
MONTREAL, Nov. 28.--The cigar operatives strike here has ended, the workmen returning on the masters' terms after six months' idleness.
A large meeting of silk operatives was held in Paterson on Tuesday night, at which numerous grievances against their employers were discussed. It was claimed by several speakers that the tariff was no benefit whatever to the employe; that the ...
The growth of co-operative savings and loan associations in the metropolitan district during the six months ended July 1 was larger than in any one year of the last decade, according to Archibald W. McEwan, Secretary of the State and Metropolitan League.
The committee of the creditors of the Cooperative Dress Association met at the office of the Receiver, Freling H. Smith, in the Boreel Building, yesterday, for the purpose of deciding in regard to the bids offered for the stock of the house.
There is the wrong and right way for co-operative marketing to obtain the greatest results. They must be organized and operated along sound business lines, according to experts of the Bureau of markets of the United States Department of Agriculture, who cite two instances to prove their point.
CLEVELAND, Feb. 12.--The AllAmerican Co-operative Commission re  ceived a new program for the year at the Co-operative Congress of Farmer and Labor organizations which closed a three-day convention here today.
The Co-operative Life and Accident Association of the United States, with home offices at No. 171 Broadway, is an organization well worth the consideration of all thinking men and especially attractive to business men who desire to carry life and accident insurance at actual cost.
co-operative "garden cities" modeled after Draveil Soc., planned in place of ruined towns; Parliament has adopted principle of indemnities in full to property owners
There is considerable misunderstanding in relation to the situation of the Russian Co-operative organizations which have been permitted to resume trading with the outside world by sanction of the Supreme Council at Paris, according ...
WASHINGTON, Feb. 2.--The campaign for enactment of a co-operative marketing law was opened today in the Senate by Senator Kellogg of Minnesota, who declared one of the greatest movements in modern times for the relief of the agricultural population was through the formation of co-operative marketing associations.
A syndicate of manufacturers has purchased for occupancy from Frederick Brown the eleven-story building at 33 and 35-West Seventeenth Street, between Fifth and Sixth Avenues.
RECENT developments among the tobacco and cotton growers of the South would indicate a tendency toward the type of co-operative organization which  has been gaining ground steadily the last ten years among the farmers of California and other Western States.
The recent incident in the State Assembly at Albany, growing out of the attempt to bring under State supervision the co-operative insurance associations, is forcible evidence, if evidence were needed, of the great development which has been made in the past few years in this form of life insurance.
Sec Baker signs contracts with reprs of Russian Cooperative Soc for sale of surplus clothing stock
PHILADELPHIA, May 29.--An average wage cut of 1  cents an hour for trolleymen, effective Thursday, was announced today by the Philadelphia Rapid Transit Company. The reductions, agreed upon by the men under the co-operative agreement plan, were brought about automatically through a wage reduction by the Cleveland Railway Company.
WASHINGTON, June 11.--Farmers' co-operative associations would prove a bulwark against Bolshevism, Charles W. Holman, Secretary of the National Milk Producers' Federation, predicted ...
The third annual National Congress of the Co-operative Movement will be held in Chicago Oct. 26-28. The call went forth to 3,000 co-operative societies, representing a membership of 750,000 consumers, and was signed by James P. Warbasse, President, and...
Planned by farmers' organizations and co-operative socs. throughout U. S.; representatives meet at St. Paul, Minn., to perfect organization
Hastings Lyons sold for the estate of T. Chamberlain the four-story building at 439 Lexigton Avenue, 19.6 by 75, located 22.5 feet north of the northeast corner of Forty-fourth Street, to George F. McGregor for $51,500. Mr. McGregor resold the property through Albert B. Ashforth to the Railroad Cooperative Building and Loan Association.
WASHINGTON, Nov. 11. -- United States Consul Mahin, at Nottingham, England, reports that mining and industrial circles generally in the United Kingdom are intently watching a co-operative experiment which is being tried in slate quarrying in the neighborhood of Lord Penrhyn's famous quarries in Wales. So universal is the interest in this undertaking that the necessary working capital has been provided by the labor organizations of the entire country.
The Garment Centre Capitol Will be officially opened on the morning of July 5, marking the completion of the largest co-operative movement to improve manufacturing conditions ever attempted in the garment industry.
A report issued last week by the Queensboor Corporation shows that close to 600 families have purchased and now occupy apartments in buildings which they control in the Jack son Heights development in the Borough of Queens.
A syndicate, in which Jasper A. Campbell, Edward Isham and George De Ball are interested purchased from Milo M. Belding, Jr., the stable at 19 West Sixty-seventh Street. Last September this company bought the adjoining garage at 17, and negotiations are now reported pending for the purchase of the stable at 21, owned by Thomas M. Leonard.
Apartment house properties were a strong feature of yesterday's realty market, one of the largest deals involving the nine-story structure at 103 to 109 East Seventy-fifth Street.
--One eccen  tric matter little understood in this country is co-operation, or collaborations, in the production of French pieces. There is an old story of an ambitious gentleman offering M. Scribe many thousand francs to be permitted to have his name associated with that of M. Scribe us joint authors of a piece by the former, of which the ambitious gentleman was ...
visits Italian front in behalf of the Amer Allied Co-operative Com of the Italian Bur of Gifts
COLUMBUS, Ga., July 14.--A reduction of 10 per cent. in the wages of the operatives in the cotton factories went into effect to-day. There is no talk of a strike.
LEWISTON, Me., Oct. 29.--On account of the shutting down of the mills in this city there is considerable distress among the discharged operatives. The Overseers of the Poor report that applications for assistance have increased rapidly of late. Forty persons left for Canada yesterday.
A number of Paterson silk operatives are agitating a movement in favor of free trade. They say that at present the manufacturers get all the benefits from protection.
SPRINGFIELD, Ohio, May 21. -- The cornerstone of the machine shop of the Farmers' Co-Operative Machine Company was laid this afternoon in the presence of 1,500 people. The principal addresses were made by S.H. Ellis, of the National Grange, General J. Warren Keifer and A.O. Bradfute, President of the International Livestock Association.
ALBANY, July 4. -- Supt. of Insurance Hotchkiss has presented his final reports in the liquidation of two co-operative fire insurance corporations, the Empire State Fire Insurance Association and the Citizens Fire Insurance Association, formerly transacting business at Utica, and has obtained orders from Justice De Angelis of the Supreme Court directing the dissolution of the corporations and the distribution of their assets in the form of dividends to creditors.
ST. LOUIS, Mo., Oct. 26.--Fifty operators in the coal mines of St. Clair County, Ill., have been indicted for violating the law requiring seales for weighing coal to be placed in each mine.
NORTHAMPTON, Mass., Jan. 27. -- The announcement is made that in September, 1912, the Lawrence House will be opened as a co-operative house. There will be accommodations for sixty-two students, at an annual cost of $200 to each student. The occupants will have a bathroom and board in the house, and, in addition to caring for her room, each student will devote approximately one hour each day to the work of the house.
Herschel H. Jones, Director of the State Division of Food and Markets, yesterday issued a warning to the public against schemes to beat the high cost of living.
AN effective way to meet the housing crisis is through co-operative housing. The co-operative ownership of apartments in New York is not an experiment. It is al  leady being carried on with great success in several parts of the city. We have not realized that while the rest of us are clamoring for State and city aid ...
foreign workers in Lowell threaten strike; demand 44-hr week and wage increase; gates of cotton mills to be guarded by police
The Rev. John Gullans purchased from the Interborough Rapid Transit Company the apartment house at 949 Ogden Avenue, corner 162d Street, arranged for twenty-three families and containing three stores. Esward H. Lockwood, ...
CHICAGO, Dec. 12.--Co-ordination, on a national basis, under the leadership of the American Farm Bureau Federation, of all co-operative marketing organizations, now numbering several thousand in this country, was approved by the adoption of a resolution today ...
DENVER, Col., June 3. -- The Rev. Myron W. Reed, President of the National Brotherhood of Co-operative Commonwealth, of which E.V. Debs and Henry D. Lloyd are the chief promoters, said to-day:
Walter L. Durack, President of the Metropolitan League of Savings and Loan Associations, told some interesting things of the success of the organization at the twenty-second annual dinner held at the Aldine Club last Thursday night. In the territory covered by the Metropolitan League about $25,000,000 is invested through the various clubs.
Judge Hough denies application of the minority preferred stockholders; reorganization plan declared operative, fight will be taken to N. J., statement of M. Hawkes
LONDON, July 22.--The gap in England's artistic life, resulting from the financial failure of the Beecham Opera Company, will be filled up if plans of a new British National Opera Company are carried out.
The National Association of Women Painters and Sculptors held its annual dinner in the Architectural League building at 215 West Fifty-seventh street last evening. After a number of classical dances by Desha, a woman ...
Meeting in Hotel Astor; purpose of organization outlined by J. A. Quinn, who tells of movie defects
denounces contractors who build and sell badly constructed apartment houses, at Atlantic City convention of Natl Assn of Bldg Owners & Mgrs
Bd of Officers of Bricklayers, Masons and Plasterers Internatl Union of Amer rejects contractors' proposal for arbitration of jurisdictional dispute with Operative Plasterers Union
Farmers in New Jersey have been warned by the State Department of Agriculture against fake co-operative deals. The co-operative idea is being rapidly developed among the farmers of that State, and this fact, it is said, has led some unscrupulous persons to promote visionary or fake schemes at the expense of the farmer.
The Socialistic spirit has penetrated to the back yard of Mrs. Martha Wandell's home, at 88 First Avenue, Tompkinsville, S.I., and her black Spanish hen and Maltese cat have established a sort of co-operative family. The cat is the mother of four kittens, now three weeks old, and the hen is at least the foster-mother of eight chicks.
The above-named association, home office at No. 171 Broadway, in this city, acting under the authority and supervision of the Insurance Department of this State, is doing a successful business, as shown by their books, which we have carefully examined, ...
FALL RIVER, Mass., May 22.--The Mill Operatives' Convention resumed its session at 8:30 this morning. Mr. Smith read a paper on the best means of establishing the ten-hour system throughout New-England. It advises the forming of unions, and urges all foreig-nborn operatives to become ...
The thirteer-story fireproof apartment house on the southeast corner of Seventy-eighth Street and Park Avenue has  been sold through Pease  Elliman to a syndicate of co-operative owners.
The Co-operatire League, 2 West Thirteenth Street, has issued a "Model Cooperative State Law," proposed for enactment by Legislatures in States where it is desird to have a co-operative stock corporation act. The purpose of the Co-operative League is to have as nearly ...
A co-operative apartment project will be undertaken on the west side as the result of a deal yesterday when R.F. Castleman sold to a client 249 West Seventy-first Street, a 16.8-foot private dwelling belonging to Mrs. Alice M. Allen, and 247 West Seventy-first Street, another 16.8-foot house belonging to Henry Prellwitz, the artist.
New Jersey farmers who are organizing to market their crops collectively are planning another big co-operative movement for organized buying of farm supplies. A farmers' State purchasing association, through which county and smaller groups of agriculturists can...
ALBANY, Oct. 12. -- The Insurance Department has for the last two months been making an investigation of co-operative fire insurance as conducted in this State. Such investigation was made possible by the enactment by the last Legislature of a law which permits the Superintendent of Insurance to apply to court for possession and liquidation of any domestic insurance corporation which shall refuse to submit its records or affairs to the inspection of the department.
large proportion of noteholders agree to note extension and road will escape receivership, statement of Chairman Trumbull
operatives rush back to mills to save their positions, Lawrence; strike leaders agree to submit bks for exam, Sup Ct hearings, Boston; Lisbon, Me, and Webster, Mass, mills grant pay rises
WASHINGTON, Dec. 14.--President Harding in a letter read today at the opening session of the National Council of Farmers' Co-operative Marketing Associations, stated that he knew of "no single movement that promises more help toward the present relief and the permanent betterment of agricultural conditions," than the co-operative organization ...
The scarcity of textile operatives is engaging the serious attention of English textile manufacturers. At a recent meeting of the British Association of Mill Managers, one speaker said that it was well known that every available mill worker had been called up in the last year, and that no one knew where the workers would come from to fill the weaving sheds that are being built at Bradford.
Mr. and Mrs. E. E. Renner obtain body attachment for E. S. Piper on ground that he falsely represented to them terms of a mortgage
WAKEFIELD, Mass., Jan. 28.--A plan contemplating an equal division of net profits or net losses annually between the company and its 1,200 employes, and containing provisions by which the workers may take over control of the business, was announced today by Winship, Boit  Co., owners of the Harvard Knitting Mills, engaged in underwear manufacture. The employes, who in recent years have received an annual bonus of 15 per cent., agreed to accept the plan.
BASLE, Switzerland, Aug. 22.--The International Co-operative League Congress attended by delegates from twenty countries opened here today. The delegates represent more than 24,000,000 families, and great importance is attached to the congress as being the first of the kind which has met since 1913.
CHICAGO, Jan. 13.--The Co-operative Glove Association, which was formed Fourteen months ago by employes of several glove factories following a strike of glove workers, announced at its first...
The first call was recently issued for the cast and chorus of this year's 'Varsity show at Columbia. It is to be given in the ballroom of the Hotel Astor during the week of March 31. The show this year is "Alan of Alkenberg," a musical comedy by S.M. Janney, '13. The results of the first rehearsal were very satisfactory, about ninety men having reported for cast and chorus positions.
In a reflective bit of special correspondence on French conditions during and after the war a writer in the Journal of Commerce predicts an extension of motor agriculture. He says in part:
TRENTON, N.J., Aug. 4 -- The running of a co-operative country store does not seem to have been a success among the farmers in the vicinity of North Branch, Somerset County, according to a bill filed in the Chancery Court to-day by Joseph Peterson of Bridgewater Township. The bill asks that a receiver be named to take charge of the concern and wind up its affairs.
LONDON, May 3. -- Co-operative principles are gaining ground in England to such an extent that they have spread, to literary men. The Blue Review, in announcing its first number, says that it marks a new development in the management of English literary magazines.
says Armour Grain Co is willing to co-operate in wheat pool suggested by B M Baruch, denies plan has been definitely settled
The Co-operative Housing Committee has been formed to plan for the building of houses on a co-operative basis, according to an announcement yesterday by Mrs. Mary Mardfin, a member...
Of the various movements on foot in the business World at the present time, none will be watched with greater interest than the fight to be waged against cancellation by the recently-organized National Bureau of Commercial Contracts. This bureau, which has represented in its membership practically ...
Among the new trucks and delivery wagons to be displayed when Part II. of the National Automobile Show begins is a one-ton worm-drive truck with left-side steering column and centre control levers for operating the brakes and change-speed gearing. This differs from the two-ton and three-ton trucks of the same make in having the seat placed back of the engine compartment instead of above it.
Walter C. Wyckoff, as broker has sold the three nine-story apartment houses at 118 East Fifty-fourth Street, 115 East 53d Street and 123 East Fiftythird Street, to a group of tenants now living in the buildings and a few others,  who will secure occupancy Oct. 1 next.
In a decision written by General Appraiser Eugene G. Hay, the Board of United States General Appraisers yesterday overruled a protest by L. Gandolfi  Co. of New York against the assessment at $2.25 a gallon of certain spirits which they contended were dutiable at $1.75 a gallon under the reciprocity agreement with Italy.
United Stores Assn formed, NYC, as $1-million co-operative corp with planned membership of 7,000 merchants; T J Foster pres; aims, plans
United Brotherhood of Maintenance of Way Employes and Shop Laborers ask Hines for 8-hour day other demands made at Detroit convention
WASHINGTON, June 6. -- Plans are being made by the Department of Commerce and Labor for a sharp campaign against the traffic in "white slaves." These plans will be put into operation just as soon as President Roosevelt issues his proclamation of the treaty of 1902, to which the United States and practically every European power were signatories.
London jubilee cong of soc, Centrosoyous, approached by Amer group consisting of former official of Russian branch of Natl City Bank and 2 legal advisers of Amer Centrosoyous repr with regard to large sum deposited in N Y to credit of Centrosoyous but not available for use because of absence of legal proof that present organization is same as in pre-revolution days; statement by F Wise, London director
PHILADELPHIA, Nov. 9 -- It is predicted that the Consolidated Lake Superior Company's plan of reorganization will be declared operative by the Moffly Committee on Tuesday next.
Legalizing what has been a custom since the enactment of the Mortgage Tax law, the defeat of the recording tax of one-half of 1 per cent. through the assigning of mortgages, is an amendment to the Real Property law which has been approved by the Governor and is to become operative on Oct. 1, 1914.
PITTSBURGH, Penn., Feb. 9. -- Several hundred thousand dozen of perfectly good eggs, all labeled "not from storage -- 41 cents," are left on dealers' hands tonight in Pittsburgh. The same eggs last Monday were sold for 50 cents, and last Saturday they bore the label 54 cents.
Walter Russell, the artist, has bought for his company the Stuyvesant Co-operative Buildings, the site at the southeast corner of Fifty-eighth Street and Seventh Avenue, 100 by 125, from Michael Coleman. The price is said to have been about $500,000. The brokers in the transaction were Alwyn Ball, Jr., Frank Hughes, and Charles H. Bliss.
D R Hanna forms orgn of Ravena, Ohio, farmers into a co-operative gen store to cut their cost of living
A resolution proposing co-operative societies for "both production and consumption," providing for the establishment of co-operative industrial plants as well as co-operative stores, was voted down by the first convention of the ...
Leo Kenneth Mayer, counsel to the Mayor'a Committee on Rent Profiteering, announced yesterday that many complaints are being received daily by the committee from tenants who say that the plan of purchasing apartments from landlords on the co-operative plan ...
The announcement comes from the American Farm Bureau Federation in Chicago that the Federated Fruit Growers, Inc., established at the recommendation of its Fruit Growers Marketing Committee, has signed a contract with ...
T F McMahon, Internatl Pres of United Textile Workers of Amer, notifies New England Conf Bd that plans have been perfected for strike
Jenkintown (Pa) Imrpovement Assn to set up cooperative plan based on Mayor L Shank idea of munic mkt
A meeting for forming a general co-operative society, and for creating a mechanics' institute in this City. was held at the Steuben House last night, Mr. R. BLISSERT presiding . A circular drawn by a committee, and inviting the workmen of this City to join in the enterprise, was read and recommitted.
The New-York Benevolent Society of Operative Masons met last evening in Demilt Hall, and delegates were present from nearly all the trades-unions in the City. William Keenan presided. The following preamble and resolutions were offered by Theodore P. Banks, and unanimously adopted:
The Hanover Estates (William J. Merritt and Henry B. Cochen) has sold the northwest corner of 180th Street and Wadsworth Avenue, 119 by 90, to the Mutual Apartment Company, recently incorporated by A. Eugene Kirby of the American Wood Fireproofing Company.
A group occupying apartments in the twelve-story and penthouse building at 950 Park Avenue, southwest corner of Eighty-second Street, has purchased the property from the City Bank Farmers Trust Company, as trustee, for organizing into a cooperative.
DUBLIN, Aug. 22 (Associated Press)-- The great co-operative dairying movement, started by the Irish Agricultural Organization Society, the system of which has been copied throughout the world, including the United States, is threatened with absolute ruin owing to...
Bernard M. Baruch will not head the $100,000,000 Farmers' Finance Corporation, now being Formed to facilitate the direct handling of crops. In announcing his decision yesterday Mr. Baruch expressed approval of the project and explained some of its phases which he thought were not clear to the public. A statement from him said:
Maps are being prepared to comply with the new Westchester County tax law, the provisions of which become operative on Jan. 1 next. The law provides that on the 15th of September of every year a new assessment roll is to be filed by the Town Assessors, which list will be an official roll for town, village, and school taxes.
Goaded to extreme measures by exorbitant increases in rent and threats of further increases tenants in all parts of the city are planning to purchase on a co-operative basis the houses in which they live. It was reported yesterday that $50,000,000 worth of buildings was now in the process of acquisition through this plan.
At the height of his career the great Sherlock Holmes could hardly have solved more puzzling mysteries than some of those that have been worked out in the last several months by the representative of the Jewelers' Co-operative Bureau at Police Headquarters.
speaks at dinner in honor of J. C. Klinck; says that Rys. may be asked to continue co-operative, non-competitive system after war
WASHINGTON, March 20.--Appealing to the agricultural vote and assuring the voters that as Chairman of the Finance Committee he would be "more than ever able to serve the interests ...
PARIS, Jan. 26.--The agreement by which the Allies seek to reopen trade relations with Russia, is noteworthy for the manner in which America is omitted from the plans.
RUSSIAN-LATVIAN FRONTIER, Oct. 21.--It is not necessary to cross the frontier to realize that when six months ago the Soviet Government permitted the resumption of private trading Russia entered a new era.
It is recognized generally in the dress and waist industry that one of the most important provisions of the protocol signed early this year by the manufacturers and their employes is that which brought the Wage Scale Board into existence. This board, as designated in the protocol, consists of eight members, four nominated by the manufacturers and four by the union.
State witnesses charge unwelcome visits from detectives for defense; Atlantic Co detective tries to deny expert's statement as to Beach's pistols
The potato growers of New Jersey have organized the Garden State Cooperative Potato Association, the second big co-operative movement launched in that State this year, to market the coming crop. The association was formed only this month with a membership ...
NY,NH&H workers in Boston plan cooperative chain of stores as means of solving their high cost of living problem
Purchases of big apartment houses under the, new tenant ownership plan were features of a moderately active real estate market yesterday.
The Dairymen's League Co-operative Association, Inc., whose members supply the fluid milk market in this city, is now extensively engaged in the manufacture of condensed and evaporated milk and is reaching out for markets for its products throughout the world.
CHICAGO, Sept. 15. -- A "model" coal mining town is being built near Pittsburg, in the coal region, by James W. Ellsworth of New York. It will be named after its founder. The inhabitants will be owners of the real estate, instead of tenants; managers instead of mere spectators of the town Government; co-operative partners in its local mercantile enterprises instead of patrons.
A general meeting Of ?? Co-operative Land and Building Society was held at Co-operative Hall, No. 214 Bowery, on Friday evening. The President, Dr. T. SEEGER, in the chair. Dr. SEEGER declared the meeting to be for the purpose of making an appropriation to some member of the Society. The amount now in bank is $1,200, and adding the receipts of the evening there is a total of $2,000.
Coal Comm's report issued; nationalization rejected, subsidy condemned; would have Govt own mineral deposits, and lease them to private enterprise concessions; other recommendations; press comment
Taft message to Cong approves Econ Bd plan to retire all Govt employes at age of 70 with pensions
negotiates with N Y bankers for $40,000,000 loan to finance cooperative marketing of Texas cotton, offers 250,000 bales of cotton as security
A total of 487 co-operative societies and limited companies were operating in France in 1822 for the construction of modest priced dwellings.
CHICAGO, Jan. 14.--A 6 per cent. dividend was announced by the glove factory which was opened by the Glove Workers' Union some fourteen months ago.
Electric Refrigeration Corp formed by merger of Kelvinator, Nizer and Grand Rapids Refrigeration Cos; officers, directors and financial details
Standard Oil Co of Indiana adopts plan providing for annuities for employes and giving them a voice in questions pertaining to relations with employers
CITY OF MEXICO, Jan. 12. -- Late advices from the Orizaba strike district are to the effect that 5,562 of the 7,033 men who were out have returned to work. Although everything is quiet at present, extreme punishment was inflicted by the Government upon the men who were the leaders in the late rioting.
The independent, self-reliant spirit which has grown up at Harvard, partly as a result of the liberal policy by which the government of the university has intrusted to the students the regulation of thei own conduct, is less often heard of than its rival, "Harvard in
CHICAGO, Dec. 22.--A "constitutional convention" of its employes is to be called by the Peoples Gas Light and Coke Company, to formulate an employe representation plan. It is part of the "new thought" in industry which in the ...
A movement is said to have been made in the flourishing City of Fall River which is obviously of very great importance. It relates especially to the operatives under age.
NEWARK, N.J., May 1. -- The Progressive Tailoring Company, a concern conducted by Frank Walters at 833 Broad Street, which undertook to clothe everybody for $1 a week on the endless chain principle, was raided to-day by anxious patrons who claimed to be unable to get clothing to which they were entitled.
WASHINGTON, Sept. 2 (AP) -- The House Small Business Committee reported today that a consumer cooperative at Greenbelt, Md., paid less than 30 per cent of the Federal taxes it would have paid as a private corporation.
3,600 Paterson, NJ, silk weavers strike to protest some smaller mills failure to pay new union scale of wages
State Highway Commissioner Bennett and the Connecticut Good Roads Association have joined in co-operative effort in behalf of the construction and maintenance of the State highways. The Good Roads Association appointed at a late meeting a special committee consisting of Senator Platt of Waterbury, Frank T. Staples of Bridgeport, and C.M. Robinson, Secretary of the association, of New Haven to tender the kindly offices of the association to the Commissioner if desired by him.
The new co-operative electric garage of the New York Electric Vehicle Association, at Central Park West and Sixty-second Street, is now in full operation, with a quota of 100 electric pleasure cars housed and cared for beneath its roof, and the entire project is succeeding beyond the fondest hopes of its originators.
TROY, N.Y., Feb. 18.--The Knights of Labor are endeavoring to organize the girls and women employed in the shirt and collar factories and laundries here. Already more than 1,000 have been enrolled. Among the number are 75 employes of Miller, Hall  Hortwell, who have just made a successful demand for an increase of wages.
underground agent int in US says Franco terrorizes anti-Fascists; claims 85% of pub opposed to regime; denies Communists would seize control if Franco were deposed, unless US and GB refused aid
NEARLY forty years have passed since a group of dreamers in Manhattan hit upon the theory of co-operation as a means for  overcoming the ills of poverty, thus anticipating those who today are building upon this same theory for the creation ...
ruling that co-operative dairies and similar associations must pay tax, despite previous immunity; all penalties to be enforced; Sec. McAdoo is allowed no discretion
WASHINGTON, Oct. 6.--A study of co-operative delivery systems, undertaken several months ago by the Commercial Economy Board of the Council of National Defense, has shown that such systems have commonly saved from 40 to 50 per cent. in investment and operating costs as compared with the individual systems replaced.
In anticipation of a shift in the personnel soon after the inauguration of Alfred E. Smith as Governor in January, chances are already being made in the New York office of the State Department of Farms and Markets. Louis B. ...
RALEIGH, N.C., Feb. 27. -- Luther Veaseey, a sixteen-year-old employe of the Durham Hosiery Mills, Durham, N.C., while oiling the shafting to-day, accidentally kicked the stepladder from beneath him.
LONDON, July 27.--A lockout of 500,000 workers in the Lancashire cotton mills on Monday seems inevitable tonight unless an eleventhhour capitulation saves the situation.
RUMORS of the impending collapse of the Bolshevist Government of Russia are supported by the official report of the London joint commission of Russian co-opera  tive societies, a board sent to Russia in accordance with the ruling of the Supreme Council to reopen trade with Russia through the co-operatives.
TRENTON, N.J., Jan. 23. -- The Manufacturers and Employers' Association of the City of Trenton was formed here to-night with 175 representatives of the industries of Trenton. The asociation will be patterned after the employers' associations of Chicago, Cincinnati, Pittsburg, Buffalo, New York, and other cities where the employers have come together to meet the demands of organized labor.
LEWISTOWN, Ill., March 27 -- The old mine troubles have again broken out in the sub-district embraced in Fulton County. The men at the Nickel Plate, Maplewood, and Sunday Creek Mines have been idle for over a week. The differences between the miners and the operators are of long standing, covering a period of many months.
The Ladies' Anti-Beef Trust Association is divided against itself. With the idea of reporting on the progress made, the members of the Committee of Fifteen appointed recently to decide upon a definite plan of action met at 83 and 85 Forsyth Street last evening. The meeting was stormy and was adjourned without much having been accomplished.
LONDON, April 12. -- A co-operative feminist theatre, conducted solely by women, will be inaugurated in October, when the Court Theatre will be taken over by the Actresses' Franchise League, of which Gertrude Elliott (Mrs. Forbes-Robertson) is President.
BRIDGEPORT, Conn., Aug. 6 -- The detectives from the Treasury Department succeeded yesterday afternoon in unraveling the mystery which has surrounded the movements of the gang of counterfeiters, and unearthed the headquarters of the party. The work of months was rewarded by the finding of the plates with which the bad money was made, the engravers' tools, and thousands of dollars of counterfeit money ready to be placed in circulation.
conf ends; reptdly decided on plan to strengthen Mediterranean fleet and divide responsibility for defense of Brit interests there with France
Several attempts have been made to form an association among the cooperative tailors of the west side of the City, has so far ineffectually. Last night another meeting was held at No. 183 Varick-street, at which some forty persons were present, an speeches were made by Mr. SPEIR NIXON and others, on the rights of Inhor, the tyranny of capital and the necessity for labor organizations. .
The New-York Cooperative Printing Company met at Botanic Hall, No. 68 East Broadway, last evening. Mr. WILLIAM STIRK presided, and Mr. CHARLES STONE was Secretary. The organization is in an encouraging condition, and is rapidly progressing, having already received fifty-four subscribers, representing upward of 500 shares of the 2,000 necessary for a charter.
The committee appointed by the shareholders to investigate the affairs of the Mercantile Co-operative Bank of New York met at the banking house at Lexington Avenue and Twenty-third Street at noon yesterday and remained in session until 6 o'clock. The investigation will be continued to-day.
A meeting was held last evening at No. 214 Bowery to consider the plan of organizing a colony for settling in Kansas on the cooperative system. The advantages of the plan were set forth by one of the leaders in the movement, whose remarks were frequently applauded.
Shakespeare Tercentenary Workmen's Meeting in Hyde Park ProhibitedThe operatives of England are the creators of the wealth of England. Without their industry she could not pay the interest of her enormous debt, could not meet the current expenses of her Government, could not maintain her present proud position among the nations. Without the support of their strong arms, her resources, her power, her prestige, would vanish as the morning mist. Yet, how are those indefatigable toilers requited for the services they render? Why, by denying them the rights of citizens and of human nature, and by manifesting, on every possible occasion, her distrust of them. Here is a case illustrative of England's mode of dealing with her moiling millions. An intelligent body of the London operatives, having resolved to celebrate SHAKESPEARE's tercentenary by marching in procession to Green Park, and there planting a young oak in honor of the great dramatist, took the liberty of sending a deputation to Downing-street, to ask permission of Mr. COWPER, Chief Commissioner of Woods and Forests, to proceed through Hyde Park to their destination. Their object had no connection whatever with politics; they merely meant to make a public demonstration of their reverence for literature, to plant in the earth the sapling, which, in its upward and outward growth for centuries, should symbolize the increasing fame of the matchless bard, and then to return home the way they came.
Dillon says Dairyrmen's League will retaliate against big cos. by building pasteurization plants and sending milk to N. Y. at less than present prices, predicts 8-cent milk; Dr. L. R. Brown calls plan of Borden Co. for importing cows impractical; Dillon says he will agree on behalf of Dairymen's League to sell Borden Co. milk at price it can be produced in city; producers in central N. Y. S. begin shipments to small dealers
FALL RIVER, Mass., Jan. 19. -- The thousands of mill operatives, who have been idle for nearly six months as the result of the great textile strike, cheerfully returned to work early to-day.
PROVIDENCE, R.I., Oct. 2.--One of the prominent examples of the "beneficent operation of a protective tariff," which was made much of by high tariff advocates at the time of its establishment late in 1,884, was the British hosiery establishment at Thornton, a suburb of this city, which was represented as having removed capital, plant, and operatives from...
A meeting took place last evening at No. 63 East Broadway of the new Cooperative Printers' Society, now in process of formation. The capital stock will consist of $20,000, in 2,000 shares of $10 each, of which $1 is to be paid down, and the rest as may be required. About 1,700 shares have been taken, of which 1,100 have had the first installment paid on them.
Actors and actresses to the number of seventy have started out to build a town of their own. Auburndale, L. I., has been selected as the site, and those interested have advanced their project so far as to acquire about 1,303 lots of the village property. There are at present only four buildings in Auburndale.
There is at present considerable activity among the different trade organizations to prevent an anticipated reduction In the present rate of wages. The horse-shoors, the plasterers, the lithographic printers, the saddle and harness makers, and the shoemakers, are all holding meetings, and the proceedings of the latter possess more than ordinary interest.
Judge Warren W. Foster, swearing in the May Grand Jury, in General Sessions yesterday, directed that body's especial attention to the prevalence of "get-richquick" syndicates, and other fraudulent co-operative pools, offering investments in oil wells, gold mines, and similar enterprises.
The annual convention of the Operative Plasterers of North America assembled this morning at Hospitalier Hall. The following officers were elected for the ensuing year: CHARLES McLEAN. of Boston, President: JOSEPH CRAIG,
A regular monthly meeting was held by the Board of Directors of the Vessel-owners' and Captains' Co-operative Association, of this City, at their rooms, Nos. 50 land 52 Pine-street, yesterday afternoon, Mr. JAMES A. VAN BRUNT presiding. Capt. NELSON EDWARDS, from the Committee on Pilotage in New-Jersey Waters, reported that a bill
all cable cos plan cuts; code messages to remain same; Brit PO expected to agree to 50% cut; only consent of Internatl Conf needed to make schedule operative; Western Union pres Col R C Clowry statement on plan notes Commercial Cable Co fight against cut
Amalgamated Operatives march in on hearing; Mfrs Assn and Lace and Embroidery Assn of Amer represented
In a statement issued yesterday by the Dairymen's League Co-operative Association, Inc., of 303 Fifth Avenue, it was reported that the August price for fluid milk will be equivalent to an increase of one cent a quart above the July price.
Ground has been broken for the two new 100 per cent. joint ownership apartment houses to be erected by the JointOwnership Construction Company, Inc., ...
3,000 wool operators storm Bradford Town Hall in effort to release co-workers arrested in connection with wage dispute
The "Co-operative Dress Association, limited," has taken possession of the new and handsome business building Nos. 31 and 33 West Twenty-third-street, which it has leased for a term of four years at an annual rental of $20,000. Preparations are now being made for the opening of the association's store there in September.
English motor car manufacturers are seriously considering a plan to meet the competition of the American cheap imported car by means of co-operative manufacturing and distributing. It is advanced that the British motor manufacturing business has emerged from the early stages when, partly through lack of experience and partly in deficiency in knowledge of economic manufacture, a balance showed a loss at the end of a year's working.
There has been much discussion in this, and other manufacturing countries in regard to the effect upon health of confinement to daily labor in the work-rooms occupied by the operative population for the space of ten, and more, hours daily.
The Russian co-operative organizations through which the Supreme Council has decided to open up trade again with Soviet Russia have warehouses filled with goods at many Russian ports, and stored" at Vladivostok are goods valued at 25,000,000 rubles, according to A.J. Zelenko, Secretary of the American Committee of the Russian Co-operatives' Union, in a statement yesterday.
FALL RIVER, Mass., Jan. 23.--The result of the meeting of the Cotton Manufacturers' Board of Trade, yesterday, has caused great dissatisfaction and indignation among the operatives. The amount of reduction has not yet been decided upon, but, on good authority, it is stated that it will be 8 per cent.
The house in which Edwin Booth, the actor, resided for many years previous to his death in 1893, and which he was instrumental in building, is now being partially torn down to be altered into lofts for business purposes. This operation, which involves some novel features apart from the historical recollections it recalls, is under way in the old Randolph apartment house at 12 and 14 West Eighteenth Street.
The relation of loan associations to gereral conditions in the country was discussed yesterday by Archibald W. McEwan, Secretary of the Leagues of Savings and Loan Associations. Mr. McEwen said: ...
CHICAGO, Nov. 5. -- Eugene Meyer Juris recommendations regarding cooperative marketing of grain, given out to the trade overnight, had a radical effect on wheat values during the day and induced sufficient selling by local and New York longs to drive the price off nearly 2 cents from Saturday's finish, with the finish 3/4 @ 1 5/8 cents lower, the latter on December, which closed 5 cents under the May.
Mrs Belmont, other wealthy women buy stock in Natl Co-op Waist & Neckwear Co as aid to strikers; NYC police arrest many strikers
Polish-Americans have adopted a novel method for giving practical aid to the land whence they or their fathers came. In addition to sending funds, food supplies and clothes to relatives and friends, a movement has been set under way to speed up the industrial regeneration of Poland.
The Cigar-makers' Progressive Union expected that the cigar-makers in the employ of Messrs. Straiton  Storm would go out on strike yesterday to resist what was said to have been an attempt on the part of the firm to reduce ...
46 mills owned by 18 corps to close temporarily, Fall River, Mass; 18,000 operators to be idled
John C. Coleman, President of the West End Association, has written to THE NEW YORK TIMES concerning the new ordinance regulating the speed of motor vehicles in New York. It will take effect next Sunday.
In pursuance of a call, an informal meeting of New York Merchants was held in the new Reading Rooms of the Merchants' Exchange, Pine street, at 3 P.M., yesterday, to take some action toward relieving the sufferings of the French operatives. After some deliberation, it was decided, in order to get an expression of popular opinion in furtherance of the contemplated object, to hold a meeting in some public hall (probably Stuyvesant Institute) on some evening of this week, to be hereafter designated.In pursuance of a call, an informal meeting of New York Merchants was held in the new Reading Rooms of the Merchants' Exchange, Pine street, at 3 P.M., yesterday, to take some action toward relieving the sufferings of the French operatives. After some deliberation, it was decided, in order to get an expression of popular opinion in furtherance of the contemplated object, to hold a meeting in some public hall (probably Stuyvesant Institute) on some evening of this week, to be hereafter designated.
MANCHESTER, England, June 3 (Associated Press).--Virtually a half million operatives in the spinning and weaving sections of the cotton mills will cease work tomorrow owing to ...
The Presidents of the principal anthracite coal roads met late yesterday afternoon in the office of Coxe Brothers, at which the coal situation was considered. Nothing of a positive nature could be learned about the result of the meeting, but it was reported that there would be no concessions to the miners.
The following are the subscriptions to the fund raising in this City for the relief of suffering English operatives:The following are the subscriptions to the fund raising in this City for the relief of suffering English operatives:
LOCKPORT, N.Y., April 24.--The case of Bridget A. McParlin against the Supreme Council of the Catholic Mutual Benefit Association, tried yesterday and to-day in the Circuit Court at Lockport by Judge Lewis and a jury, was finished ...
Operatives of Chadwick-Hoskins mill near Charlotte, vote to strike; A F L denounces F Beal and G Pershing, strike leaders at Gastonia
The members of the New-York Chamber of Commerce and other citizens and merchants of this vicinity, who sympathize also with the suffering operatives of France, as well as the poor of other lands, are hereby most earnestly requested by the undersigned and many others to meet in mass meeting at the New Merchants' Exchange, Nos. 50 and 52 Pine street, at 2 o'clock, on Friday, 12th instant, to dopt such necessary steps as may be there deems necessary to render charitable aid in the transhipment of the produce and provisions of our country to the poor of France, who are now suffering for these necessaries of life in consequence of not receiving the usual orders for their manufactures during the last season, nor the usual supply of cotton for their mills from the United States.The members of the New-York Chamber of Commerce and other citizens and merchants of this vicinity, who sympathize also with the suffering operatives of France, as well as the poor of other lands, are hereby most earnestly requested by the undersigned and many others to meet in mass meeting at the New Merchants' Exchange, Nos. 50 and 52 Pine street, at 2 o'clock, on Friday, 12th instant, to dopt such necessary steps as may be there deems necessary to render charitable aid in the transhipment of the produce and provisions of our country to the poor of France, who are now suffering for these necessaries of life in consequence of not receiving the usual orders for their manufactures during the last season, nor the usual supply of cotton for their mills from the United States.
WILMINGTON, Del., Dec. 15.--Shortly after the machinery in the spinning room of the Arlington Mills Manufacturing Company was set in motion this morning a heated pulley set fire to some cotton on mules, and the flames spread through the building in an instant, burning it to the ground.
FALL RIVER, Mass., Nov. 4. -- Gov. Bates at a Republican rally in the Academy of Music to-night braved an unfriendly demonstration and defended his veto of the Women and Minors' Overtime bill. The bill originated in this city, and the Governor's action in vetoing it has been the foremost issue in the State campaign locally.
manifesto condemning totalitarian regimes adopted; resolutions; Yugoslav trade union pub denounces ICFTU as 'strikebreaking' instrument of 'imperialist agents,'
Sawyer lists 3 basic aims agreed on; outlines com functions; com gets official title, Pres Com on Business and Govt Relations
Sec Sawyer advises Sen Kefauver campaign to educate business in voluntary anti-trust compliance will not alter Govt's trust-busting plan
Citizen Union opposes proposed change of Central Pk S sec from residential to restricted retail area
Formed; aims; J H Oldenbroek named sec-gen; RC unions invited to join if they sever ties with Internatl Christian Confed; W Green and P Murray named to Exec Bd, with G Meany, I Brown, J B Carey and E Cope as substitutes
Asst Atty Gen Bergson says 2 big cases attack monopoly power and not bigness in business; D R Richberg wants Cong revision of Sherman Act
HOLLYWOOD, Fla., Dec. 5 -Compulsory competitive bidding for the purchase of corporate securities was denounced here today by Hal H. Dewar, Texan president of the Investment Bankers Association, as a "fallacious extension of government fiat which is not destructive of monopolistic practice but is creating new monopolies."
Sec Sawyer, at Pres Truman's request, seeks plan to prevent monopolies and restraint of trade; will form interagency com; gives data to Celler subcom on concentration of output in 452 industries; tables on top concentration ratios
House subcom hearings continue; GE pres C E Wilson assails moves to curb cos size; sees anti-trust laws satisfactory; Repr Celler comments
Admr P G Hoffman gets NRDGA survey on consumer goods import market listing 400 items US retailers will buy from Marshall Plan countries; Hoffman scores slogan 'Buy Amer,'
group headed by Dr H Brown and S I Orson plans shopping and recreation center; files plea for rezoning
Foreign import restrictions, together with currency devaluation, are gradually driving American pharmaceutical concerns out of world markets, it was charged yesterday by Dr. Theodore G. Klumpp, president of the American Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association.
Sales of New York and Brooklyn department stores last week dropped 2 per cent below the corresponding period a year ago, according to the "flash" report issued yesterday by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. Sales for the four weeks ended last Saturday were off 4 per cent.
NYC Boro Pres Rogers urges zoning change for a Manhattan dist from residential to restricted retail
55% of 167 dept and specialty stores surveyed by Retail News Bur expect sales decline; 40% see gain
60% of 250 dept stores surveyed by Kirby, Block & Co expect sales gains in 1st 4 mos of '50
Commerce Dept sees bigger buying rush with dollar buying more; V L Bassie urges early shopping because of shorter supplies
E W Tinker urges indus fight conception of business as harmful to pub welfare; revs indus conditions
US C or C pres H W Steinkraus discounts business size as monopoly guide; defines monopolistic business; opposes Celler stand for laws curbing co size
Profit-taking yesterday abruptly altered the strong forward movement of last week and steady though moderate selling reduced prices fractions to slightly more than a point with a few wider losses. The weakness in du Pont, which accompanied a year-end dividend declaration smaller than had been expected by most observers, accounted for a drop of 1.25 points in the price averages.
Fair trade need stressed, Amer Fair Trade Council; pres J W Anderson assails voluntary plan, advocates
Sen Tydings says there is no Cong sentiment for Miller-Tydings Act repeal; revs law principle; says fair trade laws are here to stay and in line with anti-trust laws
House subcom hearings continue; du Pont pres C H Greenewalt cites small business benefits from big business; scores idea bigness is violation of anti-trust laws; Repr Celler takes issue; NAM exec E Bunting; says monopolies should be subject to anti-trust laws; opposes artificial size limitations
L P Shield repts 3 big chains sales drop and small stores sales rise; A C Nielson repts self-service sales rise
NLRB sets aside Stern Bros store election won by independent Local 5; charges local violated electioneering rules
7 held for assault in Aug melee over Loft shipments by non-union truck freed for lack of evidence, NYC
Sales of New York and Brooklyn department stores declined 5 per [cent last week in comparison with the corresponding week last year. i according to the "flash" report issued yesterday by the Federal Reserved Bank of New York. The l drop for the four weeks ended on l last Saturday was 13 per cent.
Brig Gen Romulo (Philippines) asks bomb output be suspended and use banned pending permanent accord, lrs to Big 5 and Canada; s on his proposal, Indianapolis
Natl Foreign Trade Council adopts 19-point plan for US investments abroad, conv; Sen O'Conor stresses needs for safeguards
House subcom hearings; Chicago mfr urges curbs on big labor and business; NY mfr offers plan
Retail Clerks Union Local 9 gets 4,300 new accts for Wanamaker store in drive to increase store's business; to spend $27,000 on plan
Internatl C of C US Council to seek internatl law revision, 47-nation '51 conf, Lisbon; plan
Xmas rush for extra sales help starts in NYC dept stores; stores seen hiring fewer and later than usual
ANPA bur natl inventory research clinic, NYC; H S Barnes lauds newspaper market research as sales and ad aid; G Baker, P B Warner and J Bradfute on research aid to low cost selling
NY port groups to press for Repr Celler bill passage; Celler comments; sees NY zone gaining area taken over by Army
independent co reprs at NY Retail Grocers Conf hold A&P competition not harmful; Asst Atty Gen Bergson denies Govt suit is based on size of co
Douglas motion gets voice vote to defer action until Jan 20; O'Conor motion to block delay rejected, 29-29; VP Barkley says he would have voted against O'Conor motion; Long and O'Mahoney back delay
NRDGA making survey on retailers reaction to Natl Standards Bur proposed standards for dress sizes 1-6x
House approves compromise, 200-104; Celler leads opposition; Patman move to reject bill defeated, 178-138; Patman comments; bill sent to Sen
J M Hancock charges anti-trust suit against A&P is primarily aimed at bigness in business; cites Cong inaction
NY zone rept, '48; Repr Celler sees Cong passing amendment to '34 Trade Zones Act, permitting mfr and displays in zones
2d Fed Reserve Dist repts dept store stocks, Aug 31, '49 are 16% below Aug 31, '48
WASHINGTON, Oct. 8 -- The breach between the House Armed Services Committee and Louis Johnson, Secretary of Defense, over alleged discrimination against the Navy in favor of the Air Force, was widened during hearings today on defense budgetary policy.
Repr Celler bill assailed as bureaucratic by Illinois Mfrs Assn official J L Donnelly, Sen subcom; Dr J D Clark for Econ Advisers Council and Independent Business Natl Fed repr back bill
Dr W I King defends big business through small profits, cites A&P and Woolworth; H O McLain holds amendment might cut sale value of small cos
G H Montague opposes amendment as aiding big and harming small cos and strengthening FTC, hearing; cites Sup Ct interpretation of Sherman Act violation as 6.7% of total competition in area
Sec Sawyer dedicates Seattle zone; urges law amendment to permit processing and shows in zones; Gov Langlie presides
GB winks at price-fixing and output controls; 12-man comm compared with 480 persons enforcing US laws
J C Penney & Co sues teamsters Locals 804, 807 and Joint Council 16, charging Taft-Hartley Law violation by strike of Motor Haulage Co employes to force Local 804 recognition as bargaining agent
Repr Celler urges changes; cites Govt aid to break barriers; J Blair disputes Mrs K Parsons stand that bill covers Fed Govt control of business growth
US Sen (O'Conor) subcom hearing; Sen O'Mahoney testifies on monopoly growth; cites data; O'Conor and O'Mahoney rept small business backs Clayton Act amendment; 2 others testify
Justice Dept sues A&P, 10 subsidiaries and 2 officers to split co into 7 independent chains, abolish wholesale business and separate mfg from buying and selling business, Atty Gen McGrath and co official comment
Navy Capt Crommelin says he attended May conf with Worth and Ingram at which memo was drafted to start probe and aid Navy defense program
A rally was negotiated yesterday morning by the stock market and the advance left the composite rate higher by 0.68 point. Although the forward movement halted in the afternoon when buying diminished, most quotations held at the best marks of the session.
NRGA rept on dept and specialty stores profits, Feb through July, shows drop in dollar vol of sales
J T Meek fears possible collapse of fair-trade pricing system unless mfrs improve policing methods; cites violations
NRDGA Piece Goods Group bulletin repts dress mfrs resisting pressure of large buying combines for extra discounts as sales increase; extra discount held unfair and a possible Robinson-Patman Act violation
10 men, including AFL Confectioners local pres, arrested for assault after melee over non-union truck shipment from plant
Mundt and others reveal that Vaughan tried to get advance data on grain consumption curbs for Milwaukee brewers in '46; charge Vaughan berated Agr Dept aide N Koenig for failing to inform him of grain quotas cut; Hoey says Vaughan, Hunt, Maragon and Maj Gen Feldman will testify; seeks to end probe in wk; Brig Gen Evans defends Vaughan; seeks character witnesses
NYSE eases rules to allow floor traders ltd bids above previous price for stocks not their own long accts
Basing-point pricing (Sen O'Mahoney) bill joint conf opposed by House bloc; selection of conferees opposed; Repr Carroll amendment held cause
bloc makes headway; vote set; Sen Morse scores Sen com action; Douglas, Hill and Kefauver comment
Basing-point pricing (O'Mahoney) bill fought by Sen anti-monopoly bloc in effort to bar Sen-House conf and 'saving' amendments removal; Long and Douglas lead fight for reconsideration of McCarran motion; Long offers motion; Douglas wants bill killed; Repr Carroll amendment noted; Sens Myers, O'Mahoney and Capehart comment
Pres Truman supports Repr Celler and com in move to rewrite laws; procedure outlined; Prof M Handler testifies; urges revision
Sen McGrath bill to amend Robinson-Patman Act to allow brokerage fees backed by Independent Grocers Alliance Distributing Co
com invites H A Toulmin to submit drafts for proposed revision of current laws; he offers 3 point plan to curb monopolistic practices; commended by com; T Arnold testifies
NY Student Marketing Inst survey for Brand Names Foundation shows brands guide hs and coll students buying
Dr W Adams urges amended patent laws to prevent corps from using unfair trade practices, House com
The chairman of the Senate Banking and Currency Committee, Mr. Robertson, has announced that the committee will begin, on Monday, a broad inquiry into alleged monopolistic practices on the part of the labor unions. The hearings will be directed initially into the coal industry.
Wholesale Trade Advisory Com submits 5-pt plan to Commerce Dept for extension of services and fair trade study
US Asst Atty Gen Bergson holds present patent system not easily used to evade anti-trust laws
Some financial observers are of the opinion that one of the mistakes likely to be made marketwise in the next two months is the assumption that the upturn in trade, slight as it is, registers the fact that the bottom of the recession was witnessed in June.
Fed Reserve Bd extends payment deadline on cash sales; exempts NYSE specialists from 50% margin requirement
Store execs see fewer leased depts as more employes trained to handle specialized depts are available
Maj Gens Waitt and Feldman suspended by Army pending probe of alleged improper conduct in awarding mil contracts; linked to 5-percenters
San Antonio listed as possible 1st privately operated, inland trade zone, Commerce Dept rept to Cong; Los Angeles and Seattle zones formation noted
The stock market underwent a minor set-back yesterday but recovered to close on a mixed note. Price changes of a point and more were few and were confined to the high-price group, and the composite rate advanced 0.15 point. A zig-zag course was followed during the day, with a moderate decline following President Truman's statement of his bullishness on the economic situation but the late trading produced a partial recovery.
Pres econ adviser J D Clark urges labor probe, subcom; recommends price-fixing curbs, etc; M Ernst testifies
Now for the first time Congress is considering the establishment of a permanent Federal Commission on Civil Rights. Full hearings are scheduled in several committees and Democratic leaders are hopeful that a bill can come to a vote at this session.
Celler subcom hearing; Atty Gen Clark testifies on laws enforcement; Sen O'Mahoney urges changes; Celler rejects Repub attempt to include labor
High costs seen bringing new wave of dept and specialty store mergers; Federated Dept Stores policy noted
WASHINGTON, July 9 -- President Truman gave full approval today to a comprehensive inquiry into the anti-trust laws and their operation, to be undertaken by Representative Emanuel Celler, Democrat, of New York, and a subcommittee of the House Judiciary Committee.
House Judiciary Com (Celler) subcom apptd; Dr Coyle comments; Celler discusses problems including repeal of wartime exemptions from anti-trust laws
Sen com hearings on J J Carson nomination to comm; backed by RC priest and J Voorhis; business opposition noted
bill passed, House, with amendment barring use to evade monopoly bars of Clayton Act as amended by Robinson-Patman Act; mfrs get right to absorb freight costs; floor fight described; Reprs comment
House debate; backers gain 3-hr debate limit; com elimination of Kefauver amendment seen issue; Repr Sabath comments
NYC Weights and Measures Bur dir F J Loughran repts NYC stores swindle $40 million a yr from housewives; bur police activities described; illus
scored by FTC atty E Macintyre, Independent Business Natl Fed repr G J Burger and Asst Prof W Adams, com; com alters Sen bill
Selective extension yesterday of the recovery of late last week sent the stock market to the best levels since May by a narrow margin. Trading after the lengthened weekend holiday was at a slow pace; transfers on the Stock Exchange dwindling to 630,000 shares, against 720,000 shares on last Friday.
Retailers experiment in operating cost reduction methods; c.o.d. mail-order coupons dropped by some; others institute limited self-service
Basing-point pricing (O'Mahoney) bill cleared by House com despite Patman protest; Celler comments; bill scored by FTC counsel W B Wooden, House Small Business Com
President Truman's letter to Senator George and Representative Doughton asking Congress to restore the Reciprocal Trade Agreements Act to its original form and extend it to June 12, 1951, is in keeping with our foreign policy, our national honor and our national interests.
The Soviet Government has decided to give up the nine-story office building in New York now occupied by the Amtorg Trading Corporation and to move that representative of the Soviet foreign trade monopoly to smaller quarters of brownstone-house proportions. This move, which is, of course, in keeping with the Kremlin's estimate of the general world situation, foreshadows a further shrinkage in trade between the United States and the Soviet Union, already reduced to a trickle.
Ed on Econ Intelligence Service study of Eur in world trade prior to Eur war outbreak
TO THE EDITOR: Some weeks ago I read with great enjoyment Helen Colton's article on "Lassie" ("Top Dog in Hollywood"). Today I saw a showing of "The Hills of Home" and, contrary to my usual behavior at a Lassie picture, did not shed one tear.
V H Kramer says Govt may bring anti-trust suit against NYSE and other exchs for comm fee-fixing
The Department of Commerce describes its report on the country's foreign trade in May as reflecting "the slowing-up in foreign demand for United States merchandise, which has been in evidence for several months." This would be no surprising result, in view of the moderate trade reaction abroad. All of the decrease in our
Until more is known about the probable direction of the negotiations between representatives of the British and German Governments regarding an agreement on foreign trade relations, no clear judgment will be possible. But it is not too early to point out that unless the German representatives show a willingness to move toward a general reduction of world trade barriers, no agreement reached is likely to promote world economic stability.
lr on action of U S in remitting tax on copra and coconut oil in relation to trade with Australia
The distinctly more hopeful view which prevails at the moment regarding the course of finance and industry had its origin in several circumstances, In so far as the sudden and somewhat spectacular strength and activity of the stock market, after the middle of last month, directed public attention ...
While the German Government, according to Washington reports, has been sounding out the State Department with regard to a reciprocal trade treaty, its advances have been meeting with rebuffs. That Washington should be cool toward such an agreement with Germany just now is intelligible, either because of Germany's defiance of world opinion or of its refusal to make even the moderate payments called for on the Young and Dawes bonds.
Some of the reasons for the extraordinary decline in international trade since 1929 are evident. Business activity has slowed down. Purchasing power in all countries has been reduced. A sharp fall has taken place in the level of prices and accordingly in the value of goods moved across national frontiers.
As a means of promoting recovery in Cuba, the Roosevelt Administration is considering negotiation of a reciprocal trade agreement with that country. American markets are essential to Cuban producers. Before the depression nearly four-fifths of the island's exports were sold in the United States and our purchases of Cuban goods exceeded $200,000,000 annually.
Our foreign trade in February, as reported by the Department of Commerce, reflected in most regards the influence of business reaction, which had already, in January and December, shaped the course both of imports and of exports, as contrasted with a year ago. It has always been an
Abandonment of free trade policy results in influx of new types of foreign trades; excerpt from s by S Baldwin
Ed on effect on foreign trade of comparative dollar stability in late Aug and part of Sept
Has not Governor ROOSEVELT the fear of Senator SMOOT before his eyes? When the Democratic candidate first began talking of his party's plank in favor of making with several countries agreements for reciprocal trade, the Utah Senator sternly rebuked him.
NEWS of the transfer of Hank Greenberg from the Detroit Tigers to the Pittsburgh Pirates by means of the waiver route is just about as stunning and unexpected as stepping into an open manhole in the dark. It becomes all the more surprising in view of the fact that the seven other clubs in the American League could have used Hank's big bat.
In an article in Economic Geography E.S. GREGG, Chief of the Transportation Division in the Department of Commerce, expresses the opinion that industrialism will not be extended to tropical countries, because nature has made them largely agricultural. Their fertility is luxuriant, but sustained effort, such as is required in manufacturing, is impossible for any length of time.
IN our countries unemployment, poverty and actual starvation are  present; and yet, while men walk the streets and cannot find work to ...
Ed on U S foreign policy in Italo-Ethiopian conflict if Pact of Paris (Kellogg Pact) were implemented
WASHINGTON, Oct. 21 -- The Consular and Trade Report will note the following foreign trade opportunities abroad. Further information regarding these may be obtained by addressing the Bureau of Manufactures, care of the Department of Commerce and Labor, Washington, D.C., giving the number of item referred to:
Ed on Sen Hull's suggestion that U S sound out foreign Govts on question of calling conf
Statistics on exports to Asia and Oceania for 8 months; statistics for eastern trade of U S for 9 months
Lawyers will long argue about the wisdom or necessity of the sixty-sevenpage decision which the Supreme Court by a majority of five to two has handed down against twelve Midwest oil corporations for alleged conspiracy to violate the 1890 Sherman Anti-Trust Act.
LONDON, June 21 -- Continued resistance of United States buyers to British goods, underlining the current drive for lowered prices through increased productivity, was reflected today in the May trade figures released by the Board of Trade.
Three years after the cessation of hostilities war influences dominate international trade actually and prospectively.  A decline in the volume of our foreign trade for 1921 by three billions is not so significant or important as such a huge figure would seem to indicate.
Politicians make tariffs. Traders make trade. That may be the reason why tariffs are so often made not in the interest of trade.
Schenley Labs improves output process, Lawrenceburg, Ind, plant; to give research and tech data to W Ger
The total of exports and imports shows the activity of foreign trade, the balance shows the profit or loss. If recent years are taken for comparison with the twelvemonth just ended, there is a decrease in both activity and profit.
Your editorial of Dec. 22 on the International Trade Organization gives the reader the impression that the charter signed at Havana last March by the representatives of fifty-two nations will bring about a multilateral nondiscriminatory form of trade. I am convinced that it will not accomplish the purported aim.
The Allied Governments will probably manage any exports from Japan after V-J Day, according to foreign trade representatives here yesterday.
WASHINGTON, Feb. 11 -- The Daily Consular and Trade Report for to-morrow notes the following trade opportunities abroad. Further information regarding these may be obtained by addressing the Bureau of Manufactures, care of the Department of Commerce and Labor Washington, D.C. giving the number of the item referred to:
In keeping with the new line assumed by Moscow at the United Nations trade conference in Geneva -- where a Soviet delegate first openly advocated increased East-West trade -- Soviet President Shvernik has now voiced the same desire in a statement addressed to Admiral Kirk, the new American Ambassador.
Uniform state trade-mark laws prepared by US Trade-Mark Assn to be acted on at conf with State Secs Natl Assn; code outlined
CONSPICUOUS as a defect in the commercial situation of  the United States is the absence of an atmosphere of foreign trade in transactions by investors.
American foreign trade is declining from a ruinous prosperity to a profit which recently would have been thought gratifying. May exports were $330,000,000, against $745,000,000 last year. Imports were $208,000,000, against $451,000,000. Yet the world was left owing us $122,000,000.
The address by Secretary Hopkins at the ninth annual world trade dinner pointed to renewed efforts by the Administration to increase our foreign trade with Latin America on a sound basis.
When the bill for renewal of the reciprocal trade program came before Congress this Spring Secretary Hull expressed the hope that there would be "strong nonpartisan support for this nonpartisan legislation." There was. The measure passed the House on April 13 with the approval of 145 Republicans, or two-thirds of the party representation in that chamber.
Buyers are inclined to hold off from new commitments and while they are doing some inquiring, the volume of actual orders being placed is relatively light, according to the weekly reviews of trade put out by the trade news agencies. Discussing the general situation, Bradstreet's says, in part...
SINCE it has become the fashion to smear those whose ability, industry and thrift created America, I was not surprised to find Anna Erskine's report of her experience selling war stamps in theatres, published in your columns, including the statement that "A carriage trade audience will pass me by with a self-conscious but shamefaced smirk, mumbling 'too much income tax.'
In Washington Last week conversations began that may go a long way toward determining what shape international trade is going to take.
Morrison gives June export figure as 93 million, highest since Dec, '20; high official says clause does not apply to western Eur and Brit African colonies; says Marshall plan indicates US does not consider that inter-Eur trade should be by clause
By the substantial majority of 47 to 33, the Senate has voted to restore the possibilities for bargaining under a renewed Reciprocal Trade. Agreements Act. By allowing the State Department, in exchange for similar tariff reductions by other countries, to make...
When war broke out last September there was much discussion as to whether the history of the last war would be repeated and American export trade with Latin America undergo a spectacular expansion.
The Sherman Anti-Trust Law of 1890 is short. Its heart is found in the following words: "Every contract, combination *** or conspiracy, in restraint of trade **** is *** illegal."
The trade reviews of the week agree that the continued labor unsettlement in the coal mining industry has served to check business. Holiday buying is reported to be in evidence, and shortages in many lines are apparent. Dun's Review says:
The fact that, measured by dollar value, our foreign trade in merchandise during 1937, as reported last week by the Commerce Department, should have surpassed all annual records since 1930 was not surprising. The course of prices has been such that, notwithstanding the decline since midsummer, the average for 1937 has been much the highest in six years.
CHICAGO, Feb. 2 -- A record trade was transacted in soy bean futures on the Board of Trade here in January, sales aggregating 49,865,000 bushels, compared with the previous record of 31,559,000 in November, 1940. Business in grains, however, slumped to the second lowest for a total month known, aggregating 241,017,000 bushels, compared with 311,316,000 in December and 750,867,000 in January, 1940.
The foreign trade returns for October were again interesting chiefly because of the visible change in composition of our exports. The total is sufficiently impressive.
Criticism in Congress that Great Britain is discriminating against American exports raises two questions. Whether the British wartime trade policy actually violates the reciprocal trade treaty with the United States, and if so, what action this country...
The statement of exports and imports in October gives a somewhat surprising picture of how our foreign trade has thus far been affected by Europe's war. Exports, which in September were $37,731,000 above August, increased $43,506,000 further in October; they...
C June and Mrs M Davis jailed on wife-trade charge, Mrs E June and G Davis freed, Lapeer
It is gratifying to learn that the formidable obstacles that have hitherto stood in the way of a reciprocal trade treaty with Argentina appear to have been removed and that such a treaty is now to be negotiated.
daily direct air service between Latin-Amer and US seen as a boon; Eur countries seeking trade cited, ed
For the first time in some weeks, the trade reviews report a more or less unsettled state of affairs in many lines of commercial and industrial endeavor:
Last week's remark of the Chairman of the United States Steel Corporation, to the effect that, although there has lately been a gradual improvement in business condition, he could see "no "substantial evidence of general rapid ...
The trade reviews of the week just passed do not agree completely on general business conditions. Dun's Review says that there has been a reversal of sentiment, and that recessions in important lines have been in evidence due to labor unrest, price agitation, and the political situation. Bradstreet's says that, while there are more cross-currents in the general trade, some of the currents are in the direction of improvement.
Because of the threat of the German barter system, a White House spokesman pictures the United States reduced to a choice among the following three courses, all of which, for the reasons given, he believes to be detrimental to the nation's welfare:
Forty-five American business men who are said to have orders for goods  from the Government of Bolshevist Russia met on Sunday in Washington and organized the American Commercial Association to Promote Russian Trade.
CHICAGO, Aug. 23 -- Liquidation by holders of September grain contracts swelled business on the Board of Trade last week to a daily average of about 16,000,000 bushels, an increase of about 3,500,000 compared with the preceding week.
The trade reviews this week agree that while the strike settlement has had a cheerful effect on trade, the conservation orders will be reflected for some time.
The trade reviews of the past week do not agree on general business. Dun's Review says that some hesitancy was apparent in the wholesale and jobbing trade, while Bradstreet's says that the general tone was more confident.
Activity in the grain pits on the Board of Trade here last week was much larger than in the preceding week, but was still much smaller than a year ago. Interest centered mainly in wheat, but the corn trade broadened considerably, especially late in the week when there was free buying of the December delivery on unfavorable weather over the Corn Belt.
A year ago the rapidly mounting balance against the United States in its foreign trade was causing much perplexity. During the four first months of 1937 merchandise imports exceeded exports by $132,600,000; in spite of which fact our net import of gold reached the sum of $611,700,000 and of silver $18,170,000.
Commenting on the condition of trade and the business of the banks, Dun's Review says:
From the most recent foreign trade statement it appears that, in the ten completed months of 1938, excess of merchandise exports over imports, $960,131,000, was the largest since 1921.
Diamond Full Fashion Hosiery Fruit of the Loom nylon hosiery to be fair-traded in states where permitted by statute; prices
The trade reviews of the past week assert that in spite of labor unrest at different points throughout the country, buying continues in favorable proportion to the, peak of the demand in the recent Summer months, even showing decided improvement in certain lines. Dun's Review says:
A certain amount of irregularity is reported by the commercial agencies, but, on the whole, there is an optimistic note sounded and a marked improvement over some recent weeks recorded. In commenting upon the state of trade, ...
It would be unfortunate, as it would be easy, to exaggerate the significance of the United States-Russian trade pact announced by the State Department on Friday. This new agreement, if made with any State other than Soviet Russia, would have attracted scant public attention.
The letters just exchanged between Secretary Hull and Leighton McCarthy, Canadian Minister at Washington, were pleasant reading. They told us that representatives of Canada and the United States are going to sit down together from time to time and try to agree upon a plan, open to all the other United Nations, for the extension of production and commerce and the reduction of tariffs and other barriers to trade.
Secretary Hopkins is justified in declaring that in the past few years barriers to free trade between the several States have grown to be "a serious threat to the economic life and business well-being of our country." He proposes ...
The feature of business in mercantile lines is the steady activity at a season when usually a slackening of manufacturing occurs. The same situation prevails in most fields of production, according to the weekly reviews of trade, and disturbing elements have not yet had much effect in retarding the movement:
The process of credit deflation is making for more caution in business undertakings, according to the weekly review of conditions by R.G. Dun  Co. The  report says in part:
Bankers returning from Europe seem to be of one mind regarding our foreign debts and what is the wisest alternative to trying to collect them. The President of the Chemical Bank says very much as Mr. KAHN had previously said:
As the Administration pushes forward its efforts for closer inter-American relations, the scope of the economic problem needs to be kept clearly in mind.
The Temporary National Economic Committee has trained a timely searchlight on the expansion of interstate trade barriers and revealed a situation which threatens the United States with trouble.
Inflation has no defenders, but there is something worse. Inflation at least gives a sease of security and prosperity, which is delusive and destructive if not held in check, but which is agreeable until the awakening comes.
THAT query almost qualified for the $64 question. Please don't run away yet. The story is a trifle too involved to tell in a sentence. Perhaps it is not entirely unique but it is strange enough to be in a class by itself. It deals with James J. Dykes and his appointment as manager of the Chicago White Sox ten years ago this month.
HEREWITH is appended a list of what the new season, in part, has in store for eager and industrious audiences. Unfortunately, this is a cynical world, and there may be readers of the ist who prefer to believe that many of the plays contained therein will never see the light of production and, even more cruel belief, that not a few of the plays were announced with no intention of any procedure beyond announcement.
Most of the country's city managers were in St. Louis last week, attending their twenty-first annual convention. Theirs can hardly be called a new profession any longer. One out of every five large American cities now has a manager. Ever since Dayton adopted it in 1914, after the flood, the council-manager plan has had a reasonably steady growth, until today 425 cities are operating under it.
The other night a group of musicians were discussing tours, concert managers and programs. One of them said the average concert manager greatly underestimated the public's capacity for enjoying solid programs of good music, especially when booking artists for the Middle West and West. The others agreed.
YONKERS, N.Y., Dec. 29--Raymond J. Whitney, Village Manager of Mamaroneck, will be appointed City Manager of Yonkers at a salary of $12,000 yearly on Jan. 1, it was announced tonight by the City Council-elect after an executive session in City Hall.
WILLIAM MCKINLEY was a happy man in politics. He had only one manager, MARK HANNA. From the time HANNA set out to make MCKINLEY President, the Clevelander was in sole control. He ran both the pre-convention campaign and the convention. He managed the campaign against BRYAN.
Senator Moses, who is to run the Republican campaign in the East, is an old hand in the management of political business. He began his apprenticeship nearly forty years ago. His services on the Republican Senatorial Campaign Committee have ...
NEWARK, N.J., April 20 -- The Newark plant of the Brewster Aeronautical Corporation was taken over today by Captain Samuel J. Zeigler of the Navy's Bureau of Aeronautics, on behalf of Captain George C. Westervelt. Captain Zeigler presented his orders to G.A. Luburg, plant manager, and immediately called a meeting of department heads.
Magistrate William A. Farrell in Jefferson Market Court yesterday discharged Edward Mehderian of 351 West Forty-second Street, manager of the Eltinge Theatre, one of the fourteen burlesque theatres closed recently by city officials.
THAT George C. Tyler will, presumably for the sake of keeping his name out of print, deny almost anything with dogged persistency and consistency does not deter dramatic reporters in their unending quest for a bit of news.
WASHINGTON, July 20. -- Chairman Black announced today that the Senate Lobby Investigating Committee, complying with a request from William Ramsey, head of the Utility Consumers League of York, will call as a witness Tuesday Quay C. Aller, sales representative of Metropolitan Edison Company at York, Pa. Luther A. Coleman, manager of the Postal Telegraph Company at York, and J.E. Coble, manager of the York Western Union office, also have been asked to testify.
A plan has been perfected by the Institute of Real Estate Management of the National Association of Real Estate Boards whereby individual property managers who meet the requirements set by the institute regarding competency and business standards may be elected to membership and designated by the initials "C. P. M."
Manager John Burns of Toronto was knocked out and carried from the field in a collision with Joe Greenberg at first base during the game with the Orioles today. He was reported not seriously injured but was sent to a hospital.
PHILADELPHIA, July 25 (AP).--The Pennsylvania Athletic Commission today announced the indefinite suspension of David Lumiansky, manager of Al Brown, for Brown's failure to appear at the Philadelphia National League ball park last night.
When the Maschke machine in the Cleveland Council finally succeeded in dismissing City Manager WILLIAM R. HOPKINS the other day, the debate produced the usual amenities, one Councilman remarking of ...
A cablegram received at the National City Bank yesterday from Thomas F. Little, manager of its Buenos Aires branch, said that the interior of the banking offices was reduced to wreckage by the bomb explosion, that woodwork and glass furnishings were demolished and that a glass skylight was blown out.
LOS ANGELES, Dec. 2.--Clifford C. (Gavvy) Cravath, former manager of the Philadelphia National League Baseball Club and manager of the Salt Lake club of the Pacific Coast League last season, will never again manage a baseball club, he has announced. The manager's job is one of turmoil and abuse, according to Cravath. Gavvy's ambition now is to be a scout for some major league team.
YONKERS, N.Y., Nov. 4 -- Three of the five members of the Yonkers Common Council took the first step today in a move to oust City Manager William A. Walsh by filing with the City Clerk resolutions calling for his suspension. They contend that he lacks an "energetic" and "understanding" approach to problems the municipality faces now or will face after the war.
Manhasset Bay Yacht Club; G F Moore, former mgr, to be arraigned on dues theft charge, Port Wash
Matanzas Prov Appeals Ct acquits J B Harris and 3 minor officials of Tinguaro mill arson charges
MILWAUKEE, Wis., March 16.--John J. Egan, manager of the Providence, R. I., team of the International League, has been signed as manager of the Milwaukee Club of the American Association, Owner A.F. Timme has announced. Egan will succeed Ned Egan, who is incapacitated as a result of a fall on the ...
THE Kingdom team of the Border Baseball League was trailing the leader by the trifling margin of thirty-one games early this month. So the manager resigned "in the best interests of the club." The news item hardly would be worth noticing were it not for the fact that the manager happened to be a large and perfectly delightful character named Henry John Bonura, better known as Zeke.
General WOOD's campaign has suffered at times, prosperous as its general course has been, from natural, and perhaps unavoidable, jealousies or dissensions among some of its leaders. In Connecticut and Oklahoma there were clashes of chieftains. In a sense there has been apparently a zone of ...
Apptmt of J F Sullivan as McKee's campaign mgr for Queens rescinded following publication of old indictment
H.C. Rickaby of the law firm of Simpson, Thacher  Bartlett will be the speaker at the monthly meeting of the management division of the Real Estate Board of New York on Tuesday evening, Dec. 15, in the Hotel Commodore. He will talk on "Rights and Wrongs of Bondholders' Committees."
Appellate Div of N Y S Supreme Court upholds charter of Rochester, N Y, for city manager govt
EVERY successful author thinks that the manager of his play has the best of it. And every manager knows that the author has the best of it. And if you ask the stage manager for his opinion the chances are that he will express sympathy for neither, but admit that he has the worst of it.
GLENWOOD, N.Y., July 6 (AP).-- Mrs. Olive Berry, wife of Romeyn Berry, graduate manager of the Cornell University Athletic Association, ...
City Mgr Kennedy cuts his own salary $2,000 in '49 operating expense estimate for his dept; A Freeman recent offer to be mgr at lower salary and guarantee budget cut noted
YONKERS, N. Y., March 7 -- The appointment of Don C. Wagner, former city manager of Portsmouth, Ohio, and Long Beach, L. I., to that post here appeared likely tonight after six of the seven Common Council members conferred on a selection from thirty-one candidates.
ACTOR-MANAGERS have, it is said, vanished with the pup dog. At the present time two actors and an actress  chiefly represent the old established line of procedure.
STANFORD UNIVERSITY, Cal., July 21.--William P. Fletcher, '11, has been appointed graduate manager of athletics of Stanford University, succeeding E.B. Martin, resigned, it was announced today.
KENOSHA, Wis., Jan. 25.--Kenosha, by a majority of 372 votes, decided to discard the aldermanic form of Government and adopt the city manager form in a special election yesterday. The vote was 3,770 to 2,898. It was considered a women's victory. Opposition to street car service was voted down by 4,256 to 2,415.
Richard L. Neuberger, in "The Farmer Is Worried About His Future," implies that the farmer is having a mighty soft time of it. Yes, be is better off than he has been in a long time, but what other business could or would run year after year on the minute return on investment and labor that farming gives? The farmer works from sixty to seventy-five hours a week.
Among the figures on the growth of wealth in the United States compiled by STONE  WEBSTER AND BLODGET, INC., not the least interesting is a single item relating to the farmer.
THIS is a book that has needed writing. Sociologists, agri-  cultural economists and historians a century hence may point to it as the first to give a comprehensive philosophy of farming in an industrialized society.
The map of crops appearing in connection with BERNHARD OSTROLENK'S understanding and comprehensive article in the Special Feature section of THE TIMES today on The Farmer's Plight (which urbanites especially should read) suggests what a long way we have traveled since the poor Greek farmer Heronax at the end of his harvest paid his homage to the goddess of agriculture and to the Seasons" whose feet are in the furrows."
Censorship Office limits Old Farmer's Almanac to forecasts by US Weather Bur; permits weather indications, ed
OMAHA. SANDWICHED in between sighs for the things she wants and cannot have there is a song in the heart of the farm wife out in the wide open spaces. though you might not think so from the volume of quite unmusical sound that comes from this part of the country. But just to prove it here is what one of them writes after a day of cooking, cleaning and mending:
Professor SELIGMAN'S analysis of the farm problem takes note of several ways in which "the normal "level of opportunities and condi"tions as between agriculture and "industry has been distorted."
High prices for durable goods, from automobiles to sewing machines, have been the cause of much public lamentation. However, an automobile finance company in Minnesota made a survey not long ago which reveals that prices of foodstuffs from American farms reached an altitude, before the recent crack in the commodity markets, out of proportion to those at least of motor cars.
For the American farmer 1932 was a year of singular misfortune. Between Jan. 1 and mid-December average prices of agricultural products, as computed by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, declined by 18.1 per cent, while the general price level was falling by only 7.8 per cent.
When the President spoke to the farmers of the country yesterday, through the American Farm Bureau Federation at Chicago, he was addressing a more satisfied audience than he would have found in the Corn Belt or the cotton country in the early days of his Administration.
The bill to forbid the sale of government-held crop surpluses at prices below "parity," which the Senate passed in disregard of the President's plea, is calculated to raise the cost of living $1,000,000,000. This is a serious matter for the consumers of the country.
Farmers in Eastern New York, New Jersey and Pennsylvania, reports Bernard Ostrolenk to this newspaper, are beginning to feel the backwash of the defense effort. They gain because the multifarious industries over the hill and down the road attract new employes, who have to eat.
Regions so far apart as Minnesota and South Africa have just witnessed a movement of the Farmer-Labor idea. A Farmer-Labor Convention at St. Paul has adopted a program which stands in great need of textual criticism before its precise meaning can be determined, but whose general intention is anti-capitalistic.
Basic to agricultural discontent in the Middle West is the feeling that the farmer has failed to obtain his just share of national prosperity. In its extreme form the statement runs that industrial well-being has been maintained at the expense of the farmer. Whether well founded here or not, it is a complaint seldom heard among the farming population of Europe, though with one notable exception.
While the farmer has been discovering the city, or at least the City of Washington, a widening group of cities in the Middle West have been discovering the farmer. They range from centres of some twenty-five thousand...
CHATTANOOGA, June 28 (AP)-- Pitcher Jack Farmer, sent to the Lookouts by Milwaukee of the American Association, has been returned to that club, Chattanooga's front office announced today. Farmer's record with the Lookouts was two defeats and no victories.
First, I would reorganize the United States Department of Agriculture, looking toward the administrative machinery needed to build a program of national planning. I should be the last person in the world to become a harsh and thoughtless critic of a department that has done so many good things.
Wrestling with his perplexing problems as chairman of the Federal Farm Board, Mr. LEGGE occasionally tries to look beyond the price levels of the moment in the hope of working out a permanent formula for prosperity on...
A Colorado farmer wrote to The Rock Mountain News to ask just how a "tariff on farm produce" was going to help him. He didn't get much light.
Farmers have grievances against banks, no doubt, but they have not the grievances they think they have, nor do they blame the right banks. The Federal Reserve Bank is the particular object of their complaints; they ...
Everybody would like to help the farmer. Big business has no such animosity against farmers as they have against "Wall Street." But farmers are disagreed about what they want and many of them seek help at the expense of the general welfare, or in ...
WHEELER McMILLEN was born on a farm; he has been a successful farmer. As a journalist on farm  papers he has seen a great many varieties of good and bad farming, and has at one time or another investigated most of the important farm problems.
Farmer nightmares, on call for first instalment of N Y banks' subscription to assn to aid banks and farmers in Northwest
Is agriculture to get the adequate protection which the Republicans promised? Is it to be put on a level with other industries? The makers of the Senate bill tried, somewhat fumblingly, to increase the agricultural rates in the Hawley bill and to knock off its enlargements of Industrial rates.
ed citing Comr W F Morgan argument that distribution and consumption be subsidized instead of production
Self-interest may obscure to the farmers the logic of the Federal Reserve Board in being against the farmers' proposal to make politics and interests dominant in the board. But it would seem that the farmers must at length perceive how thor- ...
The farmers of the country, we have long maintained, know far more about what is good for them than do those members of Congress who count as lost any session which doesn't produce some new kind of farm subsidy or some new formula for raising farm prices.
The opinions of Lewis Morris, a Grimes (Iowa) farmer, on farm and factory problems will be heard at a session of the Congress of American industry, which meets under the auspices of the National Association of Manufacturers at the Hotel Waldorf-Astoria Dec. 7, 8 and 9.
Farmer sentenced in Stuttgart on charges of immoral conduct with girl sent him by State as more or less compulsory Land Help
A Supreme Court of farmers, editorial on Sen. Martin's resolution for constitutional amendment providing that not less than 3 of the 5 Judges shall be farmers
Senator JOHNSON breaks the racking suspense in which the country had been held by telling the National Board of Farm Organizations, which lately sent a questionnaire to the Presidential aspirants, that he is in favor of liberty and equal rights for ail.
MISS FARMER was very positive: "I've come to the conclusion that the legitimate theatre is the only medium for acting and the repertory group is the only kind of theatre which can produce good acting."
W S Gifford on US war effort and industry post-war plans: C E Mason sees isolated farmers as chief post-war beneficiary of mil walkie-talkie development
The New York Farm Bureau Federation is giving light to the other farmers who think that the way to get service from the railways is to impoverish them. No farmer starves his beasts and expects them to draw heavier loads the less they are fed.
OMAHA, Oct. 18 -- There have been recent suggestions that isolation is wearing thin in the Middle West and speculation over how real that trend is and how far it has gone. For six or eight months there have been witnesses trying to say that it was very real indeed, but they haven't been taken very seriously until now.
Amer Grocery Mfrs repts on 1st of Farm Panel series of surveys on farmers relation to other branches of food indus; survey shows farmers reaction to distribution problems
Acting Federal Reserve Governor PLATT recommends to the Senate Banking Committee that eligible agricultural paper be admitted to rediscount for nine months, one-half longer than the present lawful maturity. If this proposal is adopted, the farmers will be granted credit for months, ...
Oregon is the first State officially to report that its Liberty Loan quota has been oversubscribed. Iowa put in a claim before Oregon to the same honor, but hasn't set forth officially her titles to the Flag.
To the Editor of The New York Times: We are told that there are 48,000,000 laborers in this country, of whom 8,000,000 are farmers, and that these farmers will profit by the depreciation of the dollar. The other 40,000,000 will go to the wall. We will leave them there for the present.
It is comforting to know that there are still three members of Congress who had the fortune to be born in a log cabin. It is, or was once, the ideal start for a politician. Fifty-one members, a little less than a tenth, were born on a farm.
Senator BORAH'S speech at Minneapolis last week had the same theme as his previous radio address in Washington which stirred so ranch interest in Europe. He has got a new subject which perhaps no one else is so well fitted to lay before the American people. Mr. BORAH cannot now be suspected of partisan motives.
The Federal Reserve Bank is asking nobody to defend it against the attacks of former Controller of the Currency WILLIAMS, and personalities have no place in the Congressional inquiry. The questions raised involve both theory and practice of banking, and should be settled on principle. The charges are that the Federal Reserve...
Under the caption "Farmer Troubles and Remedies," you said that "each farmer can do most to help himself by acting individually, trusting individually, trusting not to tariffs or laws." That is precisely what farmers have been doing. Living isolated lives, as most of them do throughout the country, there is very little seen of concerted action.
Agriculture is our greatest interest. It is entitled to all consideration within reason. A representative conference of farmers and planters at Washington put themselves in a false position by going there and did not help their ...
The Advisory Council of the Federal Reserve is the highest authority of the country on matters of banking policy. The country is the worse for not having seen the railways' red light. Now it may profit by seeing the banking red light betimes.
Scarcity of supply brings higher prices, and no other sound way of making and keeping them, higher is known. Such movements as the farmers' holiday, now spreading through, the Middle West, are designed to promote scarcity. Hitherto the agrarian, effort has taken the form, of reducing the crop.
It is no small honor to aspire to be a colleague, however unworthy, of Senator BROOKHART. The term of Mr. STECK ends March 4, 1931. He is an amiable person, but on account of his politics the Republicans of the State regard him as what the archaeologists call an intrusive burial.
Ed on preference of farmers at Ia State Fair for amusements rather than s on McNary-Haugen bill by Repr Brand
In the fine kaleidoscopic show at Washington the farmer's slide is the most beautiful and received with the most applause. Belated "justice " has reached him. Dairy, henhouse, orchard, garden, field, vineyard were soundly protected last week.
As Iowa seems to be the only State in which the Republicans are likely to "gain" a Senator, a certain interest attaches to the nomination of the Republican candidate in...
Announcement of the plan to turn over to home relief families vacant lots and other undeveloped land for the growing of vegetables for their own use is the most inspiriting Spring news. It is even on larger scale than last year and will provide 10,000 plots. The project will do far more, however, than contribute to the subsistence of tens of thousands who will join in their cultivation and have benefit of vegetable crops.
Too little is known in the East about Representative at Large TRUAX of Ohio. He is a specialist "in pure-bred Duroc Jersey hogs." He used to edit The Swine World. He was beaten for Senator by SIMEON D. FESS in 1928, but proposes to beat him in 1934. He breakfasts, lunches and dines on international bankers.
TOPEKA, Kan., Dec. 26.--Throughout this agricultural section mingled sentiments have greeted the new Farm Act.
It is some time since the lowing herd has been observed slowly winding over the lea of Times Square. The most sensitive ear has failed to catch the ring of the woodman's axe upon bark and bole in Park Avenue. Coal miners with lamp...
WASHINGTON, Jan. 12 -- The text of President Roosevelt's statement to the country's farmers today, as issued through Stabilization Director James F. Byrnes, follows:
Farm problems and farm relief seem so exclusively the prerogative of Iowa and Kansas that one never fails to pause incredulously over a headline announcing farm relief legislation for New York State.
FAIRFAX HARRISON, President of the Southern Railway, whose authorship of "Roman Farm Management" was for a time concealed under the pseudonym "A Virginia Farmer," must ...
GABRIEL DAVIDSON, General Manager of the Jewish Agricultural and Industrial Aid Society, has  issued the twentieth annual report of the organization's work, which less developed a movement that today is national in scope.
Somewhere between the farmer and the city man an unconscionable profit is made. In the last few days lettuce that the grower sold for $1 to $1.25 a crate cost the public at the rate of $2.40 to $6 a crate; onions that the ...
Critics who complain that the American Federation of Labor has no constructive policy, no inspiring leadership, should consider the "keynote" of Mr. GOMPERS's address at Denver.
The Federal Reserve law limits rediscounts to paper arising from "actual commercial transactions" for "agricultural, industrial or commer  cial" purposes. Agriculture was given first place, because not until after the war did industrial business reach first rank.
We ara not hearing so much just now about "America First." So far as that campaign claptrap meant anything at all to the ordinary mind, it implied that this country was to go it along, live off its own fat and keep foreign goods out by a high tariff. But that kind of America first is already beginning to appear too much...
Mr. EDISON proposed a special finance for the farmers because they got "skinned" through ignorance of figures. But their education is proceeding apace. Those wise in the ways of markets are advising holding crops for higher prices. This is the "conservative marketing" policy.
Shooting affray between H Mohler, farmer, and gunning party which crossed his farm allegedly without permission; Mohler held
The Manufacturers' Record has published an extremely pertinent article on "How Farmers Could Find Credit Unaided." It was pointed out that the building and loan associations of this country, which "have about $700,000,000 of accumulated money," are purely private and voluntary of organizations, such as the farmers might form under the General Corporations acts of the several States.
At the top of the Senate's calendar is the bill of the agricultural bloc giving the farmers a representative upon the administration of the Federal Reserve Bank. No other interest ...
Army plane crash on T Q Sullivan farm; J E Mealer, farmer killed, near College Pk
On Saturday was announced the favorable report to the Senate of the farmers' bill for the regulation of the grain exchanges. If the bill concerned only the farmers, they would be welcome to it. But the difficulty is ...
Farmers need the courts, on cases pending in U S Supreme Court on Ark road taxes
IN the thirty-year period between 1900 and 1930, 7,000,000 acres of land in the State of New York increased more than $100,000,000  in value. In the same period 21,000,000 acres decreased $315,000,OOO in value.
A Georgia newspaper, commenting on the cry from one of the counties of that big State for 1,000 more farmers, remarks that there are 146 counties in the State which need as many. The chance of getting farmers for the neglected Georgia lands is better than the chance of getting good farmers.
Governor HARDING Of the Federal Reserve Bank makes a long statement regarding the relations of the banks to the farmers' demands that something be done for their special relief.
Lawyers have a saying that hard cases make bad law. The farmers certainly had a hard case in the world collapse of agricultural prices followine the war, and their bloc secured
The difference between common sense and political nostrums will be made clear to anybody who takes pains to compare President HARDING'S talk to the National Agricultural ...
N Y S Agr Com urges Lehman to name farm experts to draft appeals bds outside N Y C
Ed on Sen Curtis's statement that Kan farmers are not talking politics and on Repr Haugen's telegram to Summer White House that farm leaders could confer later on farm relief
Ex-Senator JONATHAN BOURNE Jr., still Chairman of the Republican Publicity Association, chooses the date for taking up the tariff bill in the Senate as an occasion to emit some general ideas with which, apparently, he has...
Your "Unclaimed Flower," "Woman's Blank Expression," "Back to the Land," , correspondents amuse me very much. Some of them make me tired.
Last Friday the agricultural "bloc" adopted the same tactics toward the Interstate Commerce Commission that have proved so successful in Congress.
The War Finance Corporation, according to a Chicago dispatch, "is "willing to loan farmers 75 per cent. "of the value of their grain, and to "renew the loans for three years, if "necessary, in order that they can...
Senator HEFLIN does THE TIMES the justice to say that it wishes to be fair. We readily published his letter about the policy of the Federal Reserve Bank regarding loans on commodities in the post-war collapse of market prices.
Mr. BARUCH has suggested that the Department of Agriculture "should "distribute to the farmers full infor"mation from all markets of the "world, so that they shall be as well "informed of their selling position as "buyers now are of their buying posi"tion." It is necessary to add that ...
The Northwest Wheat Growers' Association has decided to join the United States Grain Growers, Inc., and in four Northwestern States 40,000,000 bushels of wheat are reported as "pooled."
Natl Farmers Union scores socialism; holds econ policy must be based on agr output; seeks indus expansion limit
Secretary WILSON'S statement that the value of the year's harvest is "the most extraordinary total in the Nation's history" does not exhaust its significance. The manner in which the magnitude of the figures is reached rivals the total itself. To illustrate, the value of the potato crop is 18 per cent. above any former crop, but the quantity is 5 per cent. below the average.
Edwin T. Meredith, Secretary of Agriculture, was recently invited by a bankers' magazine to give his views and his ideas on what assistance the bankers of the country can give toward the farming industry. His reply was in letter form. He said:
The Department of Agriculture has made a house to-house canvass through thirteen States and has learned that 40 per cent. of the farmers visited.
Fed Land Bank starts payments to 15,000 farmers in Penna, Del, Md, Va and W Va in move to reorganize and strengthen Natl Farm Loan Assns
The dairy farm situation in New York State is in desperate condition owing to lack of labor. Every kind of help is being prepared for the farmer through the efforts of the Governors, but we are unable to get trained dairymen and other livestock men.
It is at first sight a little surprising that the Western farmers should be  taking the lead in demanding the full restoration of trade relations with Europe. The tradition has been to think of them as home-keeping men with "homely wits." They are supposed to ask with more scorn than...
RENEWED activity in the radio market news service during cold weather is planned by the Bureau  of Markets and Crop Estimates of the ...
Governor HARDING of the Federal Reserve Board informs the Senate Committee on Agriculture that last year $719,000,000 of farm paper was rediscounted, and that this year the same rediscounts approach two billions.
The Morning World-Herald, published at Omaha, in the State where resides the perennial foe of the trusts and the moneyed classes, and of the Wall Street cormorants and buzzards, expresses these heated sentiments apropos of the saturnalia which follows the ripening sunshine on the prairies:
WASHINGTON, April 19 -- The five-day House debate on the agriculture appropriation bill was drawn out by spokesmen for "small farmers," who were aroused by the Appropriations Committee's action in striking out, decreasing or reallocating the control of various appropriations designed to aid this farm group.
The Rural New Yorker, which very properly calls itself "the business farmer's paper," has some suggestive comments upon the Republican votes against the tariff:
MANAGUA, Nicaragua, Feb. 24-- President Anastasio Somoza, through Dr. Ramon Sevilla, Minister of Finance, has authorized the Nicaraguan National Bank to place orders in the United States for agricultural machinery to a value of $350,000. The machinery will be resold to farmers on easy terms.
Bulgarian and Ital friction rising over policing Macedonia; Chetnik warfare continues; Serbian farmers warned to harvest fields to prevent Chetniks use of fields as hideouts
Milk house on farm at Lowville dynamited; battle at Macdougall; troops use tear gas at Binghampton; N Y S Conf Bd of Farm Organizations asks for martial law
It is undesirable that the representatives of the agricultural interests should leave Washington and spread through the country the idea that they are discriminated against by the money power, and that foreign securities or domestic industrial and trade interests ...
The Government's April crop report throws an interesting light on the farmers' own purposes for wheat-growing, regardless of such restrictions as the Agricultural Department may have placed upon acreage.
The Joint Congressional Commission of Agricultural Inquiry has filed the first of several reports on the troubles of the farmers. This first instalment makes thirteen recommendations, beginning with a superfluity.
WASHINGTON, May 15. -- Deciding against the creation of a new national agrarian organization, farmer delegates from thirty-four States and Puerto Rico, appointed at yesterday's mass meeting, today adopted a resolution urging continuation of the Agricultural Adjustment Act, including the processing tax and amendments now pending in Congress.
President HARDING'S praise of the War Finance Corporation for aiding banking institutions, co-operative marketing organizations and exporters of farm products is deserved.
Our farmers, who are paying high and rising prices for all that they must buy, labor included, quite naturally object to a foodstuffs embargo designed to reduce the prices of what they have to sell. Their associations are beginning to make formal protest by resolutions and otherwise. One, whose 300,000 members are grain farmers, asserts that the proposed embargo would be class legislation.
Nine banks of North Dakota have been closed in ten days as the result of being too accommodating to farmers. On the Same day that this was
The old-fashioned notion of the relation of the Government to the farmer, of which HORACE GREELEY was the chief apostle, was that the Government should provide home markets for the farmer by protecting from foreign competition the farmer's customers engaged in manufacturing.
ROCHESTER, N.Y., March 31. -- Their battle won for action by the Legislature on the Pitcher bill, rebellious farmers in the Rochester area this afternoon called a halt until Monday in their war against the Dairymen's League which virtually has cut the league off from its normal sources of supply in Monroe and near-by counties for the last three days.
MANY discussions assume that Washington's efforts to bring farm and other prices near together are an unheard-of departure. Several countries are trying experiments not much unlike ours, though less comprehensive. Holland fixes a price for hogs and issues a limited number of license tags to farmers, who must attach one to each animal offered for sale, thus preventing an overwhelming of the market.
WASHINGTON, July 9. -- On recommendation of Representative Bert Lord of New York, whose home district around Binghamton was one of those hardest hit, the Rural Resettlement Administration began working today on the problems of loans for seed, feed and housing in areas where plantings and crops were washed out by floods, and barns and homes wrecked.
Natl Executive Com of Farmer-Labor Party of the U S scores old parties on farm aid
The demand for relief from the public funds by the farmers and planters who are holding their crops depends upon the condition of their industry, which is revealed by the volume of exports and the prices realized.
Sound truth was forcibly and clearly expressed in the speech of HENRY WALLACE, President of the Conservation Congress, at Kansas City Monday. The greatest need of this country is the upbuilding of its farms. The time is near at hand, said Mr. WALLACE, when we shall need practically all our grains to provide for the wants of our own population.
ACCORDING to General Ferdinand Taufflieb, the French farmer keeps good accounts and good accounts make good friends. Although a farmer and not a  militarist. General Taufflieb, who was the first member elected to the French...
There is one very modest sentence in the message of President ROOSEVELT which treats of a subject of lasting importance as to which a wise and prudent policy by the Federal Government may have good and far-reaching results. In discussing the tendency of population away from the farms and toward the cities, he says:
3 US fliers downed in Jap-held Okinawa carry life raft to beach and row out to sea to be rescued
NEWTON, N.J., July 25.--Jeremiah Cole, a well-to-do farmer living near Colesville, about twenty miles from here, committed suicide by hanging himself to the rafters in his barn early today. He was found by his wife, who cut the body down. Cole, who was 70 years old, lost a hand last year while sawing lumber. His loss brought on frequent spells of despondency.
The latest Irish journals bring us full accounts of the annual meeting of the Irish Agricultural Organization Society in Dublin, at which Sir HORACE PLUNKEET was unanimously chosen President. This gentleman is so well known on this side the ocean, is so closely identified with this country, in which he spent some years, that his reappearance as the leader of the movement for general co-operation in Ireland is not without importance for our own people.
CHICAGO, Aug. 24--A clash between farmers and organized labor over the ceiling prices for livestock was predicted today by market observers at the stock yards. They said the clash would occur in one or two weeks after the reinstatement of controls at prices much nearer those asked by labor than farmers had hoped for.
CHICAGO, March 19.--Sam H. Thompson, veteran campaigner for agricultural equality and pioneer in farm cooperative work, today relinquished ...
FARMERS of Babylonia in 1000 B.C. found the temple grange helpful.  Tablet No. 150 in the Yale University collection of Babylonian tablets is a carefully drawn lease of farming and ...
Anniskeagh House, home of A N Sheridan, bombed by irregulars after owner and family are put in streets
T M Fox, 15 yrs old, accused of poisoning coffee of employer, C E Hubbard of Sunderland
Farmers in Middle West complain most frequently of rise in retail price as compared with rise in farm produce price
WASHINGTON, May 24.--The Senate concurred today in the House amendments and completed legislative action on the bill authorizing the President to name an additional member of the Federal Reserve, Board who, at is understood, shall be representative of the agricultural interests. The measure now goes to the White House.
The Democratic plank promising "a reduction of the tariff upon the necessaries of life" seems to us harmless, even admirable, but it is loaded and aimed at the heart which beats for the poor farmer. The above simple phrase being translated into a shorter and uglier form spells "free wool," and that means the enmity of that class for whose pennies Mr. BRYAN made such a heart to heart appeal the other day.
The farmers are said to be disappointing the expectations of their Democratic friend as to their contributions in aid of his campaign in their behalf. It would be odd if they should make a like response to the overtures of their Republican friend. No farmers are known to be asking anybody's favor in these golden days of agriculture, and nobody would have any patience with them if they were.
Articles of incorporation have been filed in South Dakota of the National Farmers' Exchange, a form of trust which begins business with a modest capitalization of fifty millions. Its main offices will be in Chicago, and if it is able to carry out its plans they will be found revolutionary.
In ten States 40,000 farmers have voted strongly in favor of retaining the excess profits tax, but are divided regarding the sales tax. Against it are 17,947, but 22,393 are not opposed.
THE members of the Women's Council of National Defense of East Orange, N.J., inaugurated an ex  periment in food conservation last Summer which not only has proved a success in their own community, but which might well be taken up as a model elsewhere.
The farms which her late Majesty held for the longest time, and which became widely known, wore at Windsor. They are not large, considering the wonderful success of the animals bred there. One, Shaw Farm, is a grazing farm with only 120 acres of arable. The other, the Flemish Farm, covers 400 acres, of which 240 are arable.
A gray-haired, weatherbeaten listener at a Farmers' Convention at Guelph, Canada, according to a dispatch on Monday to The Toronic Globe, halted the young Agricultural Department lecturer on "Alfalfa" to ask:
Altogether the most optimistic account of conditions and prospects yet published by any responsible authority is that issued by the Commercial National Bank of Chicago, which summarizes thus: "It is no longer necessary to speak in faint and cautious terms of scattered signs of industrial revival.
We know now what is the matter with the embattled farmers. Senator LADD of North Dakota explains that class-consciousness, that word as blessed as Mesopotamia used to be, has ...
Mr. BRYAN tells the farmers something of which it is important that others than farmers should take note. Mr. BRYAN appeals to the agriculturists to support his campaign because they in particular have "suffered from control of politics by the great predatory corporations."
The rule is that crops deteriorate as the season advances. Yesterday's crop report leaves no doubt that there is still to be expected betterment over conditions already good. The rains which have bothered the holiday makers have given vegetation strong roots to withstand Summer heats.
The farmers appeal to Congress against unsympathetic treatment by Secretary HOUSTON on behalf of the Treasury, and Governor HARDING On behalf of the Federal Reserve.
US Agr Dept curbs aid to farmers complying with conservation program as result of proposed budget cut
When the agricultural bloc seeks to better its position by laws discriminating in its favor it takes a position which is understandable, if mistaken.
THE Hambletonian means nothing in the life of the city dweller, the troglodyte of the teeming turrets. But to the farmer in the dell -- and the farmers on a thousand hills -- the Hambletonian is the great sports event of the year. The harness horse and all its ways are truly rural.
French Natl Fed of Farm Owners to urge members to vote 'no' in natl Const referendum
Government financial aid for the farmer has long been a Populist doctrine in this country, and bankers, too, are giving attention to ways and means of extending and perfecting rural credits. These movements give particular interest to the experiments which the Government of Saxony is making in stimulating not only agricultural expansion, but the activities of small local manufacturers, through the agency of financial aid from the State.
KANSAS CITY, June 22 (Associated Press) -- When told of a plan outlined by Bernard M. Baruch in New York, whereby the Armour Grain Company would come under the control of the United States Grain Growers. Inc., Senator Capper of Kansas declared here today that he had received several letters from Mr. Baruch on the subject.
If the farmer and the workingman will apply their common sense to this silver policy for a time and then compare notes, neither can be misled by the demagogues who appeal to them.
Certain new committeemen of the House Committee on Agriculture, according to The Washington Post, being in the majority, and convinced by the arguments of the experts that Secretary WILSON'S department needs this year a larger allowance than usual in its propaganda for better crops, have agreed to report a bill carrying a total of $11,400,000 instead of the $10,666,350 originally estimated as sufficient.
President HILL of the Great Northern is a little loose in his calculation that $5,000 will "build" an agricultural school and that the cost of a battleship will maintain a thousand of such schools. But his notion of the relative value of the two expenditures is not far out of the way.
Pres Soekarno sees victory based on peasant-army solidarity; warns troops against requisitions; 1/2 of Java factories reptd destroyed under scorched earth policy; Repub cabinet nominates Sjahrir for parleys with Dutch under 3-power comm apptd by Security Council
FARMER BILKINGTON was jogging along homeward, behind his old gray mare, after a day or peddling "garden truck" among the Summer cottagers, when he overtook a young man in a sea-blue shirtwaist, purple-checked golf trousers, and red shoes, who was smoking a cigarette.
Bill giving 2-yr extension to period during which Fed Land Bank comr may make loans on corp behalf passed, Sen
IS there any reason why I shouldn't paint things as I see them?" a young woman student smarting under criticism, once asked James McNeill Whistler.
THE framers of our platform should say what they mean and mean what they say. The platform should be sufficiently brief to encompass it in one column of an ordina ry newspaper.
BROWNSVILLE, Texas, Sept. 15. -- Farmers of the lower Rio Grande Valley of Texas, one of the first sections of the nation to pay the Bankhead Cotton Tax, today were preparing to petition the Federal District Court for an injunction against collection of the tax.
LARCHMON, N.Y., May 15. -- Andrew Ross, a farmer of Fairfield, Conn., was seriously injured by an automobile in the Post Road near here today, He was fitting a new shoe in his car when an automobile driven by Warren C. Rose struck him. Rose took Ross to the New Rochelle Hospital. Rose was arrested and held in $1,000 bail to await the result of Ross's injuries.
Farmers and the Clayton act, editorial on suit against Assoc. as organization in restraint of trade
" The Letters from a Farmer in Pennsylvania to the Inhabitants of the British Colonies," (reprinted. Large octavo. Pp. 216. Blue paper boards, vellum backs. Illustrated. New York: The Outlook Company. Japan paper, $15; Van Gelder paper, $7.50,) first appeared in The Pennsylvania Chronicle and Universal Advertiser in 1767.
Farm group halts labor recruitment for farmers guilty of mistreating Negro employes; move follows disclosure of atrocities, Bethal
As noted in an article in yesterday's TIMES, the conditions of farm life in this State are being rapidly improved through the centralization of rural schools. There were a few consolidated districts twenty years or more ago, but great advance has been made under an amendment to the education law of twelve years ago.
THE still safe margin of shopping days until Christmas seems to disappear when you enter the Wildenstein Galleries. The holiday has already arrived on its elegant fifth floor. For here are 100 paintings, each based on a Christmas theme.
preview of contemporary Amer paintings annual; trustees confirm accord with Modern Art Museum and policy of fostering contemporary work; plan historical shows
DESPITE its immediacy of appeal the work of Paul Klee is in many ways among the most baffling and paradoxical in the whole modern movement. Only Picasso's protean output rivals it in fertility and in diversity.
trustees rept pre-1900 Amer art collection will be sold and contemporary Amer work bought; text; accord reached with Modern Art Museum for cooperation in Amer art field
Goetz awaits official rept; Chicago Art Inst voices interest in exhibiting picture; Met awaits Goetz instructions; dealer R Lewenthal offers to refund purchase price
winning designs in Museum Design Project-Modern Art Museum contest to be shown, '50; reproductions to be sold
THE people of New York have cause to be grateful to His Imperial Majesty, Mohammed Reza Pahlavi, Shahinsha of Iran. In connection with the young ruler's diplomatic visit, a group of Near Eastern art treasures from the imperial collection itself and from the museums in Teheran and Mashhad has been lent to the Metropolitan.
Hallmark contest internatl award split between F Conway, US contest winner, and E Georg, French contest winner; illus; US contest winner and jury
Comr Carusi repts 110,000 admitted in 13 mos; repts no evidence of subversives organized efforts to infiltrate
Amer Acad of Arts and Sciences and Natl Inst of Arts and Lrs; candidates for grants (Acad)
4 experts, apptd by Met Museum, NYC, deny authenticity of W Goetz's van Gogh; admit their fallibility
There are all sorts of ways of propagating doctrines, ideas and systems, and the Russians have not been teaching the world anything new in the way of methods. The differences between propaganda in Soviet Russia today and in Nazi Germany or Fascist Italy before the war would be hard to discover, except in matters of degree and effectiveness.
Canada asks Polish Govt to sue for possession of collection brought to Canada in '40 by reprs of former Polish Govt
WHITE PLAINS, N. Y., Nov. 13 -- The nineteenth annual exhibition of the Westchester Arts and Crafts Guild will be opened at 2 P. M. tomorrow in the Westchester County Center here, under the sponsorship of the Westchester County Recreation Commission.
Countess Spiridon-Galletti asks art recovery mission aid in finding da Vinci painting believed sold to Hitler in '41
trustees meet; W G Mather resigns as pres; named hon pres; H T Clark named pres
H Matter wins poster award in educ program sponsored by Modern Art Museum and Natl Foundation, NYC; other awards
Experts study Van Gogh self-por owned by W Goetz after W J Van Gogh and J Sandberg question authenticity
THE newly opened comprehensive exhibition of paintings and drawings by Van Gogh, at the Metropolitan Museum should prove to be a fairly definitive experience for the visitor. Except that, since the art world is very much alive, a constant process of revaluation necessarily goes on.
An intent crowd of nearly 2,000, including many teen-agers, visited the Vincent Van Gogh exhibition yesterday at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the opening day of the largest Van Gogh show ever held in this country.
IN its current exhibition, "Modern Art in Your Life," the Museum of Modern Art, as part of its twentieth anniversary program, is in effect rather elaborately demonstrating a truism. That the life of a given time is necessarily reflected in its art, architecture, industrial design and in the make-up of a thousand things in daily living, it would seem, hardly needs to be said.
Natl Exhibition of Dinnerware Design winners noted; sponsored by Syracuse Fine Arts Museum and Commercial Decal
Whether or not the average citizen understands modern art and whether or not he likes it, he stumbles across myriad manifestations of it in the course of a day's existence. That is the theme of the exhibition, "Modern Art in Your Life," which opens today at the Museum of Modern Art.
As a part of its twentieth-anniversary program, the Museum of Modern Art will open to the public today an exhibition entitled "Modern Art in Your Life." It is less an art exhibition than a demonstration of a thesis which should not need demonstration, but which apparently does need to be reiterated at intervals -- that modern art is not an orphan stepchild of the life of our time, nor a product of spontaneous combustion.
Dr K Lehmann repts wife's discovery of 3d Victory statue, Samothrace, dating from 200 BC; illus
Cloisters dir J J Rorimer on use of ultraviolet rays to determine authenticity of medieval works; illus
Comment on murals for restaurants, bars, hotel lobbies and ships; M Barnes cited on problem for ships
Internatl Educ Inst literature forum; W Faulkner called finest US writer; 5 others cited as popular abroad
injunction to prevent Mr and Mrs H C Pell from disposing of Portuguese collection to continue pending further ct action
Comment on C H C Baker criticism of pub collections, S Calif; pub insts problems of attribution, frauds and gifts discussed; illus
THE subject of collaboration between architects and artists has become a sort of skeleton in the closet. The skeleton is taken out and given lip-service at forums, dinner meetings and exhibitions, but at the end of the specific occasion the door is slammed again.
WITH the acquisition of Picasso's "Three Musicians" (one of two versions painted in 1921, the other, slightly smaller, in the Gallatin Collection, Philadelphia Museum), the Museum of Modern Art is able to present to any skeptical visitor an extraordinary group of that controversial painter's major achievements.
THE retrospective exhibition of work by the Austrian expressionist Oskar Kokoschka which has opened at the Museum of Modern Art does considerably more than bring before us an artist's development. In fact, the exhibition seems to me much less important in itself at the moment than for what it reveals of the art of our period.
Munic Art Soc approves F Keally plan for city com as design clearing-house for munic-owned areas
Prize-winning paintings and unknown works of late A Juergens found in basement of his farmhouse, Grand Rapids, Mich
B Shahn, J Levine and other gallery regulars (Downtown); E Spruce, Gibran L MacKendrick and others, (Levitt)
US mfrs to use 4 prize-winning designs from Modern Art Museum and Design Project contest; E Kaufmann Jr comments; E J Wormley on trends in seating pieces
PRINCETON, N. J., June 13 -- While Princeton University was announcing an intensified investigation of the disappearance of two Rembrandt etchings and a Degas drawing from its art museum on Saturday, a second week-end case, involving the loss of a one-eighth inch cube of radioactive cobalt was reported to the borough police today.
If I may be pardoned for saying so, I think somebody named Jewell is off the beam. It may be I. Or it may be your art critic, Edward Alden Jewell. Admittedly and blatantly ignorant of all the nuances of art, I don't like any painting unless it is of almost photographic quality.
THE suspicion has been growing for some time that there are people who actually write the copy on the flaps of book jackets. Let me make a clean breast of it straight off. For a number of years I was a book blurbist.
PHOTOGRAPHY is an art because the photographer may manipulate techniques to  achieve a desired pictorial result, says Phillipe Halsman, a Life photographer. Photography is not an art because it is not creative, ...
The new film at the Mayfair, despite its unpromising title, is the bearer of a hearty thesis which it attacks with vigor and healthy malice. Swinging its punches up from the toes, it wades into the band of writers, artists and musicians who still cling to the fading Bohemianism of Greenwich Village. It places a well-timed bomb under the pallid cult below Fourteenth Street, which will fight to the death for its right to believe that clean shirts and haircuts are incompatible with high-minded artistic expression. If "I Believed in You" can be trusted, the Village tea-room brigade, reading their verses by candlelight and crying imprecations on the bourgeois mediocrities who traffic evilly with the publishers and producers, are men and women of small integrity and smaller talent.Being the dramatization of a point of view, the new film shrewdly manipulates its arguments, not to discover the median of truth, but to bludgeon a case for the prosecution. In the Village they will very likely laugh it down; at the Mayfair audiences applauded some of the anti-art-for-art's-sake speeches. At any rate, "I Believed in You" is a lively and interesting entertainment.True Merrill, in the story, is a girl who believes passionately in what the neo-expressionists among her village friends appear to stand for. Michael Harrison, a wealthy dilettante, represents everything in the corrupt world of bourgeois art that she abhors. She has come to New York from a mining town, lured by the angry, prophetic words of the labor agitator with whom she is in love. Stung by Harrison's sarcastic references to her friends, she accepts his chiding offer to let him finance the group for six months. He maintains that they will not only fail to produce anything of value, but will be wanting in ordinary gratitude. After the six months, even her lover, who seems incorruptible, has shown himself to be small and mean. Broken, she herself sells a first novel, declines Harrison's offer of marriage and determines to go on by herself.The actors who participate in this parable are good and the direction successfully avoids the temptation to belabor the theme with facile burlesque. Rosemary Ames, a charming and talented newcomer, gives an affecting performance as the girl, and she is excellently assisted by Victor Jory as the agitator and John Boles as the dilettante.The new film at the Mayfair, despite its unpromising title, is the bearer of a hearty thesis which it attacks with vigor and healthy malice. Swinging its punches up from the toes, it wades into the band of writers, artists and musicians who still cling to the fading Bohemianism of Greenwich Village. It places a well-timed bomb under the pallid cult below Fourteenth Street, which will fight to the death for its right to believe that clean shirts and haircuts are incompatible with high-minded artistic expression. If "I Believed in You" can be trusted, the Village tea-room brigade, reading their verses by candlelight and crying imprecations on the bourgeois mediocrities who traffic evilly with the publishers and producers, are men and women of small integrity and smaller talent.Being the dramatization of a point of view, the new film shrewdly manipulates its arguments, not to discover the median of truth, but to bludgeon a case for the prosecution. In the Village they will very likely laugh it down; at the Mayfair audiences applauded some of the anti-art-for-art's-sake speeches. At any rate, "I Believed in You" is a lively and interesting entertainment.True Merrill, in the story, is a girl who believes passionately in what the neo-expressionists among her village friends appear to stand for. Michael Harrison, a wealthy dilettante, represents everything in the corrupt world of bourgeois art that she abhors. She has come to New York from a mining town, lured by the angry, prophetic words of the labor agitator with whom she is in love. Stung by Harrison's sarcastic references to her friends, she accepts his chiding offer to let him finance the group for six months. He maintains that they will not only fail to produce anything of value, but will be wanting in ordinary gratitude. After the six months, even her lover, who seems incorruptible, has shown himself to be small and mean. Broken, she herself sells a first novel, declines Harrison's offer of marriage and determines to go on by herself.The actors who participate in this parable are good and the direction successfully avoids the temptation to belabor the theme with facile burlesque. Rosemary Ames, a charming and talented newcomer, gives an affecting performance as the girl, and she is excellently assisted by Victor Jory as the agitator and John Boles as the dilettante.
For the first time in many weeks, no large group show appears on the current art calendar. The Five-Miles-of-Art Salons of America exhibition closed last night at the forum in Rockefeller Center; the Independents, at Grand Central Palace, also folded their tents.
The Symons Galleries, Inc., open today the eighth of their series of exhibitions devoted to the decorative arts. Chippendale, showing the Chinese, French and Gothic influences, will be featured.
Exhibitions scheduled to open today include drawings of present-day New York by Vernon Howe Bailey at the Museum of the City of New York, drawings by George deForest Brush at the Fifth Avenue Grand Central Art Galleries, a group exhibition of 100 photographs at the Rabinoviteh Gallery and the semi-annual showing of work by students in the Phoenix Art Institute, 350 Madison Avenue.
LAST Spring the art Centre was Incorporated and the event  made a pleasant stir in art circles. Here was a new organization to which artists might look for aid in placing designs for manufactures, to which manufacturers ...
Recommends personnel for Amer Comm for the Protection and Salvage of Artistic and Historic Monuments; illus
BERLIN.  WHENEVER the Propylaen Verlag of Berlin brings out another volume of its comprehensive history of  the art of all ages and all nations, both the literary and artistic worlds joyfully hail the new publication We must confess that the abundance of splendid Illustrations in these books constitutes their prime
TWO or three years ago I read in the annual announcement of a leading American magazine a paragraph asserting that the essay was regaining  its former popularity; and as I was myself an essayist by profession I rejoiced. Yet I wondered if there was any basis of fact in the editorial assumption that the essay had ever lost its appeal to the more or less cultivated public which reads the more literary magazines.
MY friend has written a book, Mr. E.J. Sullivan (I wonder how many know his name?) his done this and he calls the volume "The  Art of Illustration."
A memorial exhibition of paintings by Charles W. Hutson, who died five year ago in New Orleans at the age of 96, opened yesterday at the New Art Circle, 543 Madison Avenue. Starting to paint at the age of 65, Charles Hutson belonged to that group of artists commonly known as "Sunday painters."
Eighty-four entries were selectled from .thousands of drawings submitted in the preliminary showing held this week at the WaldorfAstoria in the American Psychiatric Association's contest for' an emblem. The drawings chosen have been sent to the Rhode Island Art Museum, Providence, to remain on exhibition until May 2.
The "Art for the Subway" exhibition, previously shown at the Museum of Modern Art and at the Transport Workers Union, is now at the Theodore Roosevelt High School, 500 East Fordham Road, in the Bronx. Besides sketches, details,
As an art student I found Eric Newton on "What Is Modern Art?" most satisfying. Too many people, through their ignorance of the graphic art elements, line, color, and texture, find modern art perplexing and thereby distasteful.
More than a score of art exhibitions open this week in local museums and galleries. The Whitney Museum, which has been closed, except for its annual exhibition of contemporary American art, since its amalgamation with the Metropolitan last year, will place on view a cross-section of the painting, sculpture and graphic art from its permanent collection beginning Tuesday.
THE London Times has been conducting a long discussion  upon the possibility of awakening industrial workers to the importance of art. Two kinds of writers, theoretic and practical, contributed opinions.
Rene d'Harnoncourt will lecture at 9 o'clock tonight in the Museum of Modern Art. His subject will be "Indian Tribal Arts and Traditions." An admission fee of $1 will be charged to the public-at-large and 25 cents for members. The museum galleries, however, will not be open tonight.
The painter and sculptor members of the National Arts Club are holding their annual exhibition at the club galleries, with a more than usual number of noteworthy items.
Leontine Camprubi will hold her first solo Show of paintings (opening on Monday) at the Contemporary Arts Gallery, 38 West Fifty-seventh Street. The artist is the daughter of the founder and editor of La Prensa. Spanish language newspaper in New York.
An exhibition of paintings by Walter F. Isaacs, head of the Art Department of the University of Washington, will open on Monday at the 460 Park Avenue Galleries (formerly Mrs. Sullivan's Gallery). The new gallery is under the direction of Mrs. Jeanne Duplaix. Water-colors by Gladys G. Young will be on view at the same time.
Announcement was made yesterday afternoon in a broadcast over station WNYC that a merger has been effected by which the American Water Color Society and the New York Water Color Club become henceforth one organization, to be known as the American Water Color Society.
The third annual exhibition of work by New York artists who have participated in the Washington Square open-air art exhibitions will be held at the International Art Center, 310 Riverside Drive, opening with a reception on Sunday from 4 to 6 o'clock in the afternoon, and to the public on Monday.
POCONO MOUNTAINS, Pa. -- Announcement of two events of unusual interest in art and music circles is being made in the Poconos.
The first showing of a new film in kodachrome color, entitled "Wayman Adams Painting a Portrait," will be given this afternoon at 5 o'clock in the American Art Today Pavilion at the World's Fair.
The sixth non-jury water-color exhibition, open to all artists living or working in the Village, has just been announced to the Village Art Center. There will be no jury of admission, only a jury to award prizes, which include a one-man show and participation in a group show.
A loan exhibit of Chinese paintings, entitled "Court Yards and Flowers," will open today at the American Institute of Decorators, 595 Madison Avenue. Malvina Hoffman's portrait of Dr. Hu Shih is included, together with paintings lent by the Metropolitan Museum and others from the collections of C.T. Loo, Giovanni Del Drago, Dikran G. Kelekian, S.R. Hoo and Mrs. Kenneth Torrance.
The Professional Artists Group of Washington Heights will hold a meeting this evening at 8:15 o'clock at the Art Center, 620 West 158th Street. George Eggers will preside and will speak on the work of the Art Center.
The Washington Square Outdoor Art Exhibition will open on Friday its tenth annual Spring show, which will continue through May 24. This open-air market is under the patronage of the Washington Square Association. Each artist is allotted eight feet of exhibition space in the space along the west and south sides of the square or along Waverly Place, Sullivan and Macdougal Streets, adjoining the square.
The Whitney Museum of American Art will be closed today, Sunday and Monday and will reopen from next Tuesday until Saturday. The museum will be closed on New Year's day and Jan. 2. Thereafter the usual hours will be resumed. The memorial exhibition of William Glackens's work will continue through Jan. 15.
Irma Rothstein, whose one-man show opened this week in the fifth-floor gallery of the School for Social Research, 66 West Twelfth Street, is a former Viennese sculptor but is now living in this country. She was born in Rostov, Russia, and her studies were pursued in Russia as well as, later on, in Vienna.
The Whitney Museum will be closed to the public today but will be open as usual tomorrow and Sunday from 1 to 5 P.M. The 1942-43 annual exhibition of contemporary American sculpture, paintings, drawings and prints [will be current through Jan. 6, and a selection of works from the permanent collection will go on view at the museum on Jan. 8.
The third year of the Chinese Art Club has been inaugurated by the election this month of M. Tiam as president. The showing of Chinese art, plays, exhibitions, classes and other cultural gatherings are among the club's many activities.
Among the art events scheduled to open today are an exhibition of recent oils and water-colors by John Marin, at An American Place; originals of illustrations by Angna Enters for her book, "Silly Girl," at the Newhouse Gallery; recent paintings by Robert T. Francis, at the Ferargil, and paintings and drawings by Fuller Potter Jr. at the Schacht Gallery.
Paintings by well-known artists will be auctioned at the Wildenstein Galleries on Oct. 27 for the benefit of the United Hospital Fund, which will open its seventieth annual campaign in the fall. The art auction was originated last year by the late Frank Crowninshield and was held at the Knoedler Galleries.
Lucienne Bloch, WPA artist who assisted Diego Rivera on his Rockefeller Center frescoes, will speak on murals before the Hunter College Art Club at noon today. This is the third in a series of five WPA art lectures being given under the supervision of the-Lecture Service Division of the WPA Federal Art Project.
The Art Teaching Division of the New York City WPA Art Project will establish a class for gifted child students, the opening session to be held on June 30 at the University Settlement, 184 Eldridge Street. The class will be conducted by Helen Silver of the project teaching staff and will meet four times a week, Monday through Thursday.
" Art in the Air," an exhibition showing the influence of aviation upon art, will. open at the Decorators Club Gallery Feb. 7. Among the artists to be included are Clayton Knight and William Heaslip. Well-known designers such as Howard Ketchum, Henry Dreyfull and Raymond Loewy will show colored renderings of the latest airplane interiors.
A retrospective memorial exhibition of paintings by the cowboy artist, Frank Tenney Johnson, who died in January, 1939, will open at the Grand Central (Terminal) Galleries on Tuesday and remain current through Jan. 31. Eighteen canvases, depicting the life of the old West, will be included.
The 909th Air Force Engineers of Mitchel Field will hold a camouflage exhibition of paintings depicting protective concealment as practiced by the United States Army, at Macy's. The exhibition opens this evening with a private view on the fifth floor and to the public on Saturday.
The art collection of Erich Maria Remarque, author of "All Quiet on the Western Front," will be placed on view at the Knoedler Galleries on Oct. 18. The paintings, formerly housed in Remarque's home in Switzerland, are largely works by impressionists and postimpressionists.
The board of directors of Colilectors of American Art, Inc., has arranged a members' open house reception at the gallery (Contemjporary Arts), 106 East Fifty-seventh Street, tomorrow afternoon from 5 to 7 P. M. Most of the paintings, prints and pieces of [sculpture acquired for the Decemi ber distribution to members will be shown.
Among the more than thirty new art shows on the calendar are several that will open late this week. Water-colors by Letterio Calapai were placed on view yesterday at the Tricker Galleries.
BOOKS about art are not enough read, all artists to the contrary notwithstanding. To read, of course, means to read, not to swal  low mithout taste or discrimination a mass of half-cooked and unseasoned material.
The Collectors of American Art, Inc., 38 West Fifty-seventh Street, as a last reminder to people interested in participating in the coming December distribution of works of art for Christmas, that the membership books close for this season on Dec. 1.
Collectors of American Art, Inc., will hold an open house reception on Sunday afternoon from 5 to 7 o'clock. John Begg, sculptor and art director of the Oxford University Press, will speak on "The Making of an Art Book." This is the final reception of the year to be held at the gallery, 106 East Fifty-seventh Street, before the annual distribution of oils, sculpture and prints to members.
Two examples of Chinese block printing, antedating the Gutenberg Bible, are part of an exhibition of more than 200 examples of Oriental manuscripts and art now in progress in the Plimpton, Smith and Dale Libraries at Columbia University.
The Andre Seligmann Gallery announces the merging of its activities with those of the Koetzer Gallery and will conduct business from Nov. 15 on at the former's old address, 15 East Fifty-seventh Street. Old masters, nineteenth-century paintings and work by living artists will be dealt in.
CRAYONS and pencils are better than nothing, but poster paints and clay are much better art materials for children, Jane Cooper Bland said when asked for some suggestions at a preview of New York City Children's Art (on view until June 24 at the Bland Galleries, 45 East Fifty-seventh Street).
The educational committee of the Dressmakers Union is sponsoring an exhibition of paintings and drawings by members of the Local 22 Art Workshop opening tomorrow afternoon at the headquarters of the union, 218 West Fortieth Street. The art class for members of the union opened last February with Seth Hoffman as instructor.
The New Art School, 567 Sixth Avenue, will open its fall term on Oct. 9, starting the fourth year of its existence under the supervision of the artist brothers, Moses and Raphael Soyer. A special week-end class will be inaugurated this year for high school and college students.
Winners in the Art Students League semi-annual competition for high school students are announced with awards amounting to a total of $723. The winners include Raymond A. Weiss of Evander Childs, Jessie Joy of Washington Irving, Phil Masnick of De Witt Clinton; Norma Levy of Evander Childs and Concetta, Caceiola of the High School of Music and Art.
A group of war posters has been placed on view at the Guild Artists Bureau, Inc., 551 Fifth Avenue, where it will remain through Jan. 15. Artists represented are Warren Baumgartner, Dean Cornwell, Peter Helck, Norman Rockwell, Saul Tepper and Earle B. Winslow.
The Barbizon-Plaza Art Galleries will open next Monday a thumbbox exhibition of paintings. Because of the success of a similar show last Summer the galleries have decided to repeat with an augmented list of prominent artists.
Art week starts today throughout the nation. It comes as the fulfillment of a project instituted in September by President Roosevelt, who asked Francis Henry Taylor, new director of the Metropolitan Museum, to serve as ...
American primitive paintings will be placed on view at the 460 Park Avenue Galleries next week for the benefit of the Scottish Clans Evacuation Pl/h for the immediate removal of British children in bombed areas to the Highlands of Scotland.
The fifty-first annual exhibition of student work, representing classes in all fields of art and craft endeavor at Pratt Institute, will open today to the public in the galleries of the International Building Radio City, instead of being held in the school galleries of the Brooklyn institution, as has been the custom in other. years. A preview and reception took place last evening.
As a special feature of the current exhibition, "Britain at War," the Museum of Modern Art will present evening performances of the British documentary films at 6:30 and 8:30 every Wednesday beginning this evening. These performances are given in addition to the regular daily and Sunday afternoon showings at 2 and 4 o'clock.
The exhibition and sale of work by outstanding artists which was organized by the Citizens Committee for the Arts is being held at the Art Students League, 215 West Fifty-seventh Street. It will close at 10 P.M. on Jan. 4. Watercolors, prints and pieces of sculpture are priced at $5 each, in order to raise funds for carrying on the work of the committee.
More than fifty of the twentieth century French paintings from the Chester Dale collection will soon be placed on indefinite loan at the Chicago Art Institute. This group includes world famous examples by Picasso, Braque, Derain, Matisse, Utrillo, Vlaminck and other leaders of French modernism.
Openings this week in local art galleries include an exhibition of portraits of six centuries at the Lllienfeld Gallery, and work by twenty-one artists of pre-Hitler Germany at the Tribune Subway Gallery. The Lilienfeld show, covering a gamut from medieval masters to Derain, will open on Wednesday.
In order to discover new creative talent, each year the Contemporary Arts Gallery, 105 East Fifty-seventh Street, opens its season with a large group exhibition. All interested American artists are invited to submit work to a jury, which will select those to be sponsored for one-man shows.
Thomas Wilfred opened his ninth Clavilux season with a recital of Lumia (color organ) compositions last evening in the Arts Institute of Light, Grand Central Palace. Recitals are given there each Friday night at 8:30.
The second Regional Scholastic High School Art Exhibition for Greater New York will be held on the fifth floor of Macy's from March 2 through the 14th. The regional exhibition affords New Yorkers the opportunity of seeing the work by pupils in public, private and parochial schools.
An auction of art objects for the benefit of the British War Relief Society will mark the opening on May 14 of the new Temple Gallery at 518 Madison Avenue. Stars of music, stage and radio will donate their services for this benefit and the entire proceeds will be given to the society which is sponsoring the event.
Allied relief: Flemish art exhibit held for another wk, N Y C, aids Belgian sailors with Allied fleets
A demonstration exhibition, "The Appreciation of the Arts," organized by the Cincinnati Museum under the sponsorship of the Carnegie Corporation of New York, will open tomorrow at the Metropolitan Museum and will continue through March.
The Contemporary Arts Gallery will open an exhibition on Monday of "Paintings of the Hudson River," by a sponsored group. A hundred years ago the Hudson River School of painters held an important position in the field of art and with this in mind the gallery will present an exhibition showing what today's painters do with the same subject.
Dry points and color prints by Mary Cassatt, from the S.P. Avery collection, will be placed on view at the New York Public Library, in the Print Gallery, from Dec. 15 to Feb. 28.
THE study of Eastern art and Oriental rugs will continue to be given at the Metropolitan Museum through the Summer session of the Free Adult Education Schools. Illustrated lectures and laboratory work supplement the course; also, field trips to many private collections.
An illustrated lecture by Dr. Sigmund Epstein, "Baths and Bathers, Ancient and Modern," will be given this evening at 8:30 o'clock at the Leonardo Da Vinci Art School, 149 East Thirty-fourth Street.
The Museum of Modern Art reports that visitors at the rate of nearly 1,800 daily are viewing the new building at 11 West Fifty-third Street. The features that particularly appeal to them, according to comment expressed, are the aircooled galleries, the outdoor sculpture ...
Two "living lithography" exhibitions will open in New York in February -- one at the New York Trade School, 312 East Sixty-seventh Street on Feb. 1; the second, a traveling exhibition sponsored by the American Institute of Graphic Arts, at the Advertising Club, 23 Park Avenue, on Feb. 24.
Richmond Barthe, Negro sculptor, will serve as chairman of the committee of judges for the first annual Beaux Arts Costume Ball to be held at the Savoy Ballroom tomorrow evening. The dance is being held under the auspices of the Citizens Sponsoring Committee of the Harlem Community Art Center.
The last of four Wednesday evening lectures at the Museum of Modern Art will be given tonight at 8:30 o'clock by Ruth Olson. The subject will be the three current exhibitions: "Image of Freedom," protographs; "Useful Objects Under $10" and "Brio Mendelsohn, architect."
The Artist Associates, 138 West Fifteenth Street, will open tomorrow at 2 P.M. an exhibition and sale of selected works in exchange for war bonds and stamps. The exhibition will be open daily, including Sundays, from 2 to 6 P.M.; and, on Mondays and Thursdays until 10 P.M.
All exhibition of recent oil paintings by Carl Wuermer -- erroneously advertised last Sunday as watercolors -- opened yesterday at the Grand Central (Vanderbilt Avenue) Galleries, to run until New Year's Day.
Evening classes for the Winter term in the School of Fine and Applied Arts of Pratt Institute opened Monday evening. The school's capacity of 700 students was nearly reached by advance enrolments.
Collectors of American Art, 38 West Fifty-seventh Street, will hold a reception at the gallery Sunday evening in connection with the April group exhibition. Dudley Digges, actor, will be guest of honor, and Theodora Irvine will speak on "Theatrical Personalities."
The tenth anniversary of the Midtown Galleries, 605 Madison Avenue, will be celebrated with a loan exhibition of paintings and sculpture borrowed from museum and important collectors through out the country, opening on March 2.
The C.W. Lyon Gallery, 15 East Fifty-sixth Street, is holding this month an exhibition of early American prints, including views of old New York and other important cities as they appeared more than 100 years ago. Most of the prints on display are in color.
The exhibition of Chinese bronzes, jades and ceramics lent from the Randon collection, which was scheduled to close last Sunday at the Brooklyn Museum, has been extended to Jan. 8. The collection includes a large group of archaic jades, pottery and bronzes.
THE beginning of actual operations of the nation-wide system by which every State and every art center in the country will be tapped for "the most comprehensive exhibition of contemporary American art ever staged at one time in this country" was announced yesterday by Grover A. Whalen, president of the New York World's Fair. 1939.
The exhibition of paintings, contributed by American artists for British and Norwegian War Relief, which has been current at the Vendome Galleries, 23 West Fifty-sixth Street, will be concluded with an auction to be held at 4 o'clock this afternoon.
Decorations in glass by twentyseven widely known artists will be placed on exhibition next Wednesday at the Steuben Building, 718 Fifth Avenue. The artists represented are Thomas Benton, John Steuart Curry, Sir Muirhead Bone, Salvador Dali, Christian Berard, ...
A new figurepiece, "The Prayer," by Malvina Hoffman, is included in the exhibition current at the English Bookshop, 64 East Fifty-fifth Street.
"American Artists in the Brooklyn Museum's Print Collection" is the title of an exhibition of graphic work by American artists opening today at the Brooklyn Museum and to be continued through April 20. Arranged by the print department, it presents outstanding examples of work by George Bellows, Mary Cassatt, Pop Hart, Winslow Homer, Whistler and Pennell.
The exhibition of paintings by Paul Lewis Clemens, the first New York show of his work, at the Walker Galleries, has been extended through Nov. 12. Maynard Walker, director, announces that nine pictures have been sold during the first two weeks of the exhibition The Clemens exhibition will be followed by a show of paintings by Hobson Pittman of Philadelphia.
The. first of two symposiums by members of the American Artists Congress will be held tomorrow afternoon at 2:15 o'clock in conjunction with their second annual exhibition, which opens today in the art galleries of John Wanamaker.
Xavier J. Barile has moved to a new studio at 213 West Fourteenth Street, where a small life class will be in session on Sunday mornings and Monday evenings during the Spring and Summer.
A new shipment of British cartoons has arrived in this country and has been added to the British and American cartoons in the current "Speak Their Language" exhibition at the Metropolitan Museum. The original shipment was lost in transit and the lost drawings have been replaced by the artists.
C. Adolph Glassgold will deliver a lecture at the New School for Social Research at 4:20 o'clock this afternoon on "Art Agencies and the Public's Interest in Art: What the Public Likes, What It Gets and How It Gets It."
The exhibition of African sculptures at the gallery of Pierre Matisse has been extended one week, closing on April 27. There is also current, besides the exhibition of African Negro art at the Museum of Modern Art, an exhibition of comparative primitive sculpture, assembled by M. Eugene Carre of Paris at the Valentine Gallery until April 27.
Another busy week in the art world gets off to a start with a show of modern French and American primitive paintings at the Sidney Janis Gallery and with one-man shows of paintings by Robert Gwathmey at the ACA and by Paul Sample at the Associated American Gallery.
The Lounge Gallery of the Eighth Street Playhouse, which for eight years has introduced the work of young artists, who would ordinarily lack exhibition facilities, by giving them their first one-man shows, will no longer select the artists who exhibit.
Registration for Art Week was to have closed today, but the deadline has been extended to Nov. 1 to allow latecomers to enter their work in the sixty sales exhibitions planned for New York City.
Dr. Franz Boas will give an illustrated lecture on "Primitive Afri can Art" at 8:45 o'clock this evening at the Cosmopolitan Club. Dr. Boas is Professor of Anthropology at Columbia University. The lecture is to be given under the auspices of the Museum of Modern Art and the president and governors of the Cosmopolitan Club, admission by card only.
To the Editor of The New York Times: Your editorial in regard to the Art Commission in this morning's issue is of considerable interest from the fact that the very men who were most hasty in the saddling of this city with an Art Commission composed of creative artists are now eager to criticise their own creation.
Francis Henry Taylor, director of the Metropolitan Museum, will deliver the installation address of the Senior Honor Society at the High School of Music and Art assembly at 10 o'clock this morning in the school auditorium.
Winners of Summer scholarships, offered by the Art Center of the Y.M.H.A., Lexington Avenue and Ninety-second Street, were announced yesterday. The scholarships were open to high school...
TOMORROW sees the formal opening by the President in Washington of the new National Gallery of Art. Along with a notable collection of painting and sculpture, acquired from famous European collections, public and private, it was presented to the nation by the late Andrew Mellon.
Eighteenth century paintings will be shown in rooms designed' by Isabella Barclay, Inc.; Bello, Inc.; Mimi Durant and Evelyn Rosenfeld, from Nov. 10 to Dec. 4, at the Decorators' Picture Gallery.
Walter Pach, artist, author and lecturer, will speak on "Academic Art" this evening at 9 o'clock at the Uptown Gallery of the Continental Club, under the Forum Division of the Adult Education Project of the Board of Education.
An exhibition of paintings and black-and-whites by Frank Callcott will open today in the foyer of the west ballroom of the Hotel Commodore on the occasion of the twentysecond annual convention of the American Association of Teachers of Spanish.
The second cavilux recital of this, the fifth season, by Thomas Wilfred, will be given this evening at 8:30 o'clock at the Art Institute of Light, 480 Lexington Avenue. The program includes "Elliptical Prelude," "Receding Forms," "Majestic Study," "Abstract and
An "open house" reception will be held by Collectors of American Art at the gallery, 106 East Fifty-seventh Street, on Sunday afternoon from 5 to 7 o'clock. John Taylor Arms will be guest of honor and will speak on "The Meaning of Prints."
Alice Decker will demonstrate wood carving at the Sculptors Guild outdoor show today. She is working on a cherry wood statue called "Flight." On Saturday, at 3 o'clock, Louise Cross will also demonstrate wood carving. Rosine Snyder, French ballet dancer, will pose in costume for Adolf Wolff on Sunday, for a figure to be modeled in clay.
Leila Stott, director of the extension division of the City and Country School, will give the fourth in a series of lectures sponsored by the Art Teachers Center of the WPA Federal Art Project this afternoon at 2 o'clock at the Project design laboratory. She will speak on "Behavior of the Young Child."
DO we go from New York to Washington to see pictures or to escape from pictures? In the case of this year's exhibition at the Corcoran Gallery both excuses count.
Exhibitions on the local calendar this week include paintings by a score of American artists, from Winslow Homer to Luigi Lucioni, at the Walker Galleries; paintings by French and American contempo-...
John Taylor Arms, president of the Society of American Etchers, announces that the exhibition hours have been extended for the twentysecond annual showing by the society, current through November.
The large exhibition of modern drawings and the exhibition of Cuban paintings at the Museum of Modern Art will close, respectively, on May 10 and May 7.
Applications for membership in the Society of Independent Artists for the Silver Jubilee exhibition will be received until March 24. The exhibition will be held at the American Fine Arts Building from April 17 to May 7. A dinner to John Sloan will be given on April 7 in honor of his completion of twenty-four years as president of the society.
The National Association of Women Painters and Sculptors at their recent meeting held at the Argent Galleries voted to change the name of the organization to the National Association of Women Artists. The following officers were elected: Bianca Todd, president; Doris Caesar, first vice president; Mrs. James H. Morrissey, second vice president; Marion Gray Traver, recording secretary; Elizabeth Cady Stanton, treasurer, and Mabel Conkling, corresponding secretary.
Recent accessions by the Brooklyn Museum will be placed on view today and will be shown through April 27. The exhibition is made up of selections from the departments of painting and sculpture, ancient art, American Indian arts and primitive cultures, the Oriental collections, prints and drawings and American rooms and textiles.
IN Sunday's TIMES your critic offers a half-hearted defense of the curiously unorganized method by which the American theatre functions, presenting in its favor the opinion that its freedom "derives directly and perhaps solely from its poverty and anarchy."
The Sculptors Guild, whose show is current until June 15 at Park Avenue and Thirty-ninth Street, is giving demonstrations every afternoon at 3 o'clock on some process of creating a piece of sculpture.
Christmas cards designed by Cyrus LeRoy Baldridge are being sold by the American Bureau for Medical Aid to China, a member agency of United China Relief. The cards depict typical Chinese scenes, each carrying a Christmas greeting in English or Chinese or both.
More than 10,000 persons, it is announced, have cast ballots in the art contest conducted in connection with the Dance International at Rockefeller Center. Visitors to the exhibition of "arts related to the dance" were given blanks on which they might indicate, In one-twothree order, their preferences among the paintings and pieces of sculpture on view.
" Abstract Art in Prints" is the title of the current exhibition in the Print Gallery of the Brooklyn Museum. It will continue until Jan. 2. In addition to prints from
An exhibition arranged by the Artists Gallery, consisting of improvisations and abstractions in watercolor by De Hirsh Margules, will open Monday at the Lincoln School of Teachers College.
The Knoedler Galleries will hold an exhibition of "Life Masks of American Patriots" by the early American sculptor John H. I. Browere, from Feb. 12 to 24. In 1825 Browere made a cast from the face of General Lafayette on his last visit to America.
Fifty-three paintings have been selected from the New York State Exhibition of Oils and Water-Colors -- said to be the first State-wide show ever held in New York -- current at the Syracuse Museum through this week, will be placed on view at the Grand Central Galleries for two weeks beginning on June 10.
Lovers of art learned with dismay early this year that no formal exhibition of contemporary American painting was planned for the New York World's Fair.
Samuel Putnam will speak at 8:30 o'clock this evening at the John Reed Club School of Art, his subject being "From Courbet to Dali: Did Modern Painting Take the Wrong Road?"
The North Atlantic area headquarters of the Red Cross has issued an urgent appeal for teachers of arts and crafts to volunteer their services with the Red Cross Arts and Skills at Mason General Hospital, Brentwood, L.I.
An exhibition of portraits of living American artists by Raphael Soyer, entitled "My Contemporaries and Elders," opened yesterday afternoon with a preview and reception at the Associated American Artists Galleries, 711 Fifth Avenue.
The twenty-second annual exhibition of the Society of Independent Artists will be held at Grand Central Palace from April 27 until May 18, and is open to all artists. As in other years, there is no jury and no prizes will be awarded.
Work of students in the Fall term art classes of the New School for Social Research is on exhibition at that institution.
The Architectural League is holding an exhibition of 140 architectural prints, which includes work by Austin, Bone, Cameron, Caneletto, Durer and many other artists both modern and of earlier centuries. It will remain until Jan. 28.
Angna Enters will appear as both artist and dance-mime at the Worcester Museum of Art on the evening of Feb. 20. On that occasion the exhibition of her water-colors and drawings, seen recently at the Ehrich-Newhouse Galleries in New York, will open at the museum, and Miss Enters will give a specially prepared program of her own dance-mime compositions.
The American Academy in Rome announces its annual competitions for fellowships in architecture, landscape architecture, painting, sculpture, musical composition and classical studies. Entries for the competitions will be received until Feb. 1.
Lionel S. Reiss is showing oils, water-colors and etchings of "Europe's Vanishing Ghettos" at the Young Women's Hebrew Association, 31 West 110th Street.
The New York School of Applied Design for Women will open today for its forty-third year, and the work of students will be on view in the Lexington Galleries of the school until Nov. 30.
The pleasing diversity of tastes in our great country is illustrated by some observations as to our drinking habits, made public by Mida's Criterion. Straight corn likker holds its own west of the Mississippi, as far as California. Californians do not disdain hard drinks, but they do consume more than 20,000,000 gallons of wine a year, or about one quart a month for every man, woman and child.
Frederick J. Waugh, American artist, has won the Popular Prize for his painting "Meridian"--the fourth successive time in the Carnegie. International, at Pittsburgh that his work has been thus acclaimed.
A symposium on "Art and the f Problem Child" will be held this afternoon at 2:30 o'clock at the New School for Social Research, 66 West Twelfth Street. It is presented in conjunction with the exhibition of paintings by children of the Hawthorne-Cedar Knolls School. The speakers will be Dr. Bertram Pollens, Jacob Panken and Dr. J. M. Papurt.
The twenty-ninth annual convention of the American Federation of Arts will, be held at the Wardman Park Hotel, Washington, D. C., on May 23, 24 and 25. It will open with a discussion of the New York World's Fair and the 1939 Golden Gate International Exposition.
A symposium on "Mural Painting in America" will be held this evening at 8:30 in the Federal Art Gallery, 225 West Fifty-seventh Street, where the show called "Murals for the Community" opened yesterday. The chairman of this evening's program, to which the public is invited, will be Burgoyne Diller, head of the mural division in the New York Region.
An exhibition of sculpture by Malvina Hoffman entitled "Men of the World" will open with a preview and cocktail party on Monday afternoon at the Coordinating Council of French Relief Societies, Inc., 451 Madison Avenue. The exhibition will open to the public on Tuesday and remain current through Sept. 15.
Many exhibitions designed with particular attention to the holiday period are being assembled in a number of the galleries. Specially arranged gallery offerings include printed Christmas wrapping papers and cards in the Print Department of the Brooklyn Museum.
The postponed exhibition of paintings by Salvador Dali, announced on last Sunday's art page as opening yesterday, will open at the Julien Levy Galleries with a preview next Tuesday afternoon and to the public the following day.
A loan exhibition of paintings, drawings, sculpture, documents and books relating to the French Revolution will be held for the benefit of the Ecole Libre des Hautes Etudes and the Societe d'Histoire de la Revolution Francaise at the Wildenstein Gallery, from Dec. 1 to 31.
An exhibition of oils, watercolors and photographs, organized by the Coordinating Council of French Relief Societies for the benefit of the campaign to aid French children, has been current at the headquarters of the organization, 4 West Fifty-eighth Street, and will continue through Nov. 30.
Until Nov. 1 the Lincoln Gallery, in the Abraham Lincoln High School, in Brooklyn, is showing color prints of work by modern masters of painting, by arrangement with the F.A.R. Gallery.
SINCE the discussion of art depends on the question of values, it seems apropos to discuss what we mean by value. Traditional philosophy (as developed by the Greeks from primitive ideas) has been an attempt to establish fixed values once and for all.
